Proceedings of the 2020 EMNLP Workshop W - NUT : The Sixth Workshop on Noisy User - generated Text , pages 485–490 Online , Nov 19 , 2020 .
c  2020 Association for Computational Linguistics485SunBear at WNUT-2020 Task 2 : Improving RoBERTa - Based Noisy Text Classiﬁcation with Knowledge of the Data domain
Linh Bao Doan Sun Asterisk Inc. doan.bao.linh @sun - asterisk.comViet - Anh Nguyen Sun Asterisk Inc. nguyen.viet.anh @sun - asterisk.comQuang
Pham Huu Sun Asterisk Inc. pham.huu.quang @sun - asterisk.com
Abstract
This paper proposes an improved custom model for WNUT task 2 : Identiﬁcation of Informative COVID-19 English Tweet .
We improve experiment with the effectiveness of ﬁne - tuning methodologies for state - of - the - art language model RoBERTa ( Liu et al . , 2019 ) .
We make a preliminary instantiation of this formal model for the text classiﬁcation approaches .
With appropriate training techniques , our model is able to achieve 0.9218 F1score on public validation set and the ensemble version settles at top 9 F1 - score ( 0.9005 ) and top 2 Recall ( 0.9301 ) on private test set .
1 Introduction Since the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic , frequently updated information becomes a huge problem of concern .
Social media platforms consequently become real - time sources for news about ﬂare - up data .
In any case , the ﬂare - up has been spreading quickly , we observe a monstrous amount of information on social networks , for example around 4 million COVID-19 English Tweets every day on Twitter , in which most of these Tweets are uninformative .
Therefore , it is crucial to collect the informative ones ( for example Corona Virus Tweets identiﬁed with new cases or dubious cases ) for downstream applications .
In any case , manual ways to deal with recognizing useful Tweets require critical human endeavors , and hence are expensive .
Based on the dataset provided in WNUT-2020 Task 2 : Identiﬁcation of informative COVID-19 English Tweets ( Nguyen et al . , 2020 ) , we propose a ﬁne - tuning strategy to adopt the universal language model RoBERTa as an backbone model for text classiﬁcation purposes .
We also conduct several experiments in varied ﬁne - tuning architectures on the pre - trained RoBERTa .
Our best model results in a high F1 - score of 0.9005 on the task ’s private testdataset and that of 0.9218 on the public validation set with Multilayer Perceptron Head .
2 Related work One of the most important parts in text classiﬁcation problems is input representation .
Traditional methods construct context - independent embeddings for words .
Mikolov et
al .
( Mikolov et al . , 2013 ) introduce an open - source Word2Vec , which consists of two models : Continuous Bag of Words ( CBOW ) and Skip - gram model .
The models were trained on 1.6 billion words to learn linguistic contexts of words .
While Word2Vec is a selfsupervised algorithm , GloVe ( Pennington et al . , 2014 ) is trained unsupervised to form word embeddings .
GloVe factorizes co - occurrence matrix of words , resulting in dense word vectors .
However , both GloVe and Word2Vec fail representing rare or out - of - vocabulary words .
FastText ( Mikolov et al . , 2018 ) mitigates this problem by decomposing words as a sum of character n - grams .
This handles unseen words very well because these character n - grams may still occur in other words .
In contrast to context - independent embeddings , modern language models encode word semantics within contexts .
Word vectors obtained from these methods achieve better results on downstream tasks because a word in different contexts expresses different meanings .
Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers ( Devlin et al . , 2018 ) , or BERT for short , outperforms the previous best result with GLUE score of 80.4 % , which is 7.6 % improvement .
There are two variants of BERT : base and large ; the large model is a stack of 24 Transformers ’ encoders for a total of 340 M parameters while the base one has only 12 encoders .
GPT-2 ( Radford et al . , 2019 ) by OpenAI is a gigantic model with 1.5 billion parameters and 48 layers , setting new state - of - the - art results on 7 out of 8 datasets .
Face-
486 Figure 1 : Our overall pipeline for hierarchical MLM tuning and main task training .
book Research team improves training procedures for BERT , introducing RoBERTa ( Liu et al . , 2019 ) .
The improvements include extended training time on a ten - times bigger dataset , increased batch size , using byte - level encoding with larger vocabulary , excluding next sentence predicting task , and dynamic masking pattern modifying .
3 Proposed method Figure 1 illustrates our process .
For MLM tuning we propose hierarchical tuning process that consists of two steps : Domain adaptation using extra COVID data and Task adaptation using the given training data .
After MLM Tuning , we utilize different training techniques for text classiﬁcation such as back translation , warm - up learning rate , layer freezing and layer - wise learning rates .
This section provides details of this pipeline .
3.1 RoBERTa network for Text Classiﬁcation Task Taking advantage of RoBERTa as a backbone , we propose a customized network with appreciably modiﬁcations .
Figure 2 illustrates our proposed architecture .
The “ base ” version of RoBERTa is used .
It has 12 Transformer blocks , each block outputs a 768 - D vector for each token .
Since the output of different Transformer blocks represent different semantic levels for the inputs , in our experiments we combine outputs of those Transformer blocks by concatenation .
This combination is fed to a classiﬁcation head .
We propose two types of the head : MLP Head : A simple feed forward network with one hidden layer .
This head takes the last token embedding as its input .
BiLSTM Head : A recurrent neural network with one Bidirectional LSTM layer .
This network takes embeddings of all tokens .
The hyperparameters are shown in Section 4.3.2 Fine - tuning Masked Language Model ( MLM ) 3.2.1 Direct tuning on task data RoBERTa apparently is an excellent language model since it was trained on a huge dataset in a broad domain .
However , the general domain is also a drawback when it comes to downstream tasks with completely different domains such as classifying users ’ tweets on Twitter .
Therefore , in order to produce high - quality outputs from the model , there is a need of ﬁne - tuning MLM task on the task dataset for RoBERTa .
This adapts the universal language model into our narrow domain , giving it prior knowledge for later classiﬁcation training .
Choosing learning rate is the key factor for the convergence .
If learning rate is too small , the model may converge too slow causing harder to ﬁt to new data distribution .
On the other hand , large learning rate can lead to the problem of useful feature forgetting .
Hence , we employ warm - up learning rate scheduler ( Howard and Ruder , 2018 ) to help the model converge faster while preserving its good initialization .
3.2.2 Hierarchical tuning with extra data We assume ﬁne - tuning only on the dataset might cause overﬁtting on the chosen dataset only .
Hence , we propose a hierarchical ﬁne - tuning strategy for RoBERTa : the ﬁrst phase we train with custom domain COVID Tweets dataset for domain adaptation , then the second phase is a ﬁne - tuning process with WNUT Task 2 dataset for task adaptation .
Our custom COVID Tweets dataset is gathered from Twitter platform , including unlabeled 1 million posts in general COVID domain , which has the hashtag of # Covid , # Covid19 , and # Coronavirus .
We expect this model to generalize better on different distributed dataset in the same ﬁeld of COVID Tweets .
487 Figure 2 : The architecture of the proposed model .
The input is tokenized into a sequence of BPE tokens .
RoBERTa , the “ base ” version , takes this sequence and propagates it through 12 Transformer layers .
By concatenating outputs from these 12 layers , we form a long sentence representation for the follow - up classiﬁcation head , which is a simple Multi - layer Perceptron / Long Short - Term Memory network .
3.3 Text classiﬁcation training 3.3.1 Back Translation Recently research ( Xie et al . , 2019 ; Edunov et al . , 2018 ) have shown that back - translating monolingual data can be used as a potential form of data augmentation in Text Classiﬁcation .
The idea behind back translation is to translate a sentence from the original language ( English ) to another selected language and then translate back to the original language .
This utilizes the power of current welldeveloped translation engines .
In our experiment , 25 % of the data samples is back - translated into Vietnamese , the same amount goes for Italian and French , and the rest 25 % is kept unchanged .
This assures the languages contribute equally to the overall dataset .
Totally , the dataset size is increased by 75 % .
3.3.2 Model freezing with layer - wise learning rates Layer freezing helps preserving useful knowledge that a pre - trained neural network has learned .
Since RoBERTa has been trained on a huge dataset , we would not want the model to derive too far from its pre - train weights .
The training procedure is divided into 2 steps : Step 1 : We freeze RoBERTa to train the classiﬁcation head for the ﬁrst epoch .
Warm - up learning rate ( Section 3.2.1 ) is also applied .
Because RoBERTa ’s weights are already well trained , this step helps escape from narrow local optimum .
Step 2 : RoBERTa is unfrozen , a whole network is trained .
In RoBERTa , upper layers produce embeddings with more contextspeciﬁc than lower layers .
This motivates us to further apply layer - wise learning rate : set a small learning rate for the shallowest layer , increase the learning rate as the layer goes deeper .
3.3.3 Label Smoothing When training a huge neural network on a relatively small dataset , overconﬁdence is a problem leading to bad behaviours of the model .
This phenomenon occurs when the model gives predictions with conﬁdence higher than its accuracy .
While there have been a lot of studies for overﬁtting reduction , overconﬁdence problem attracts less attention from researchers .
In this study , we employ label smoothing ( Szegedy et al . , 2015 ) to prevent model from being too certain about its predictions .
Instead of assigning “ hard ” one - hot encoded ground truth , label smoothing adds a small perturbation into the label by a smoothing parameter  .
488Model Precision Recall F1 Accuracy RoBERTa + MLP Head 0.9407 0.8740 0.9061 0.9080 RoBERTa + BiLSTM Head 0.9322 0.8853 0.9082 0.9110 Direct tuning +
MLP Head + Label smoothing 0.9492 0.8960 0.9218 0.9240 Direct tuning + BiLSTM Head + Label smoothing 0.9364 0.8983 0.9170 0.9200 Direct tuning + MLP Head + Back translation + Label smoothing0.9343 0.8909 0.9121 0.9150 Hierarchical tuning +
MLP Head + Back translation + Label smoothing0.9449 0.8745 0.9084 0.9100 Table 1 : Comparison of different tuning and training techniques on the public validation set .
y0 k = yk(1   )
+  = K , whereykis output probabilities of Kclasses .
Moreover , label smoothing also helps stabilize the training process .
When using cross - entropy loss , one - hot encoded labels cause numerical instabilities if the prediction is close to one - hot form .
In that case , the loss will become 1 log 0
=  1 .
By setting  6= 0 , this problem can be solved .
4 Experiments and Results 4.1 Experiment setup Our set - up is proceeded as following instruction .
We trained our networks with PyTorch framework on GPU GeForce GTX 2080Ti with batch size 32 for 20 epochs .
We used AdamW ( Loshchilov and Hutter , 2017 ) for the optimization and a learning rate of 3e 5 , decayed 0.01 except for LayerNorm layers .
Label smoothing hyperparameter  was empirically experimented with multiple values of 0 , 0.1 , 0.15 , 0.2 and the last value possessed promising results .
The numbers of hidden units of MLP Head and BiLSTM Head to 768 and 256 respectively .
4.2 Evaluation metrics Evaluation metrics for assessing are Accuracy , F1score , Recall and Precision metrics on public validation set .
Accuracy can be used when the class distribution is similar while F1 - score is a better choice of metric when there are imbalanced classes .
precision = TP TP+FP recall = TP TP+FNF1=2 precision 1+recall 1 , whereTP : True Positive , FP : False Positive , FN : False Negative 4.3 Results Table 1 compares the performance of multiple trial architectures training with pre - trained method using RoBERTa in our base settings .
The original RoBERTa with MLP Head shows the better result than LSTM head , but the difference is not really noticeable ( 0.9082 vs. 0.9061 ) .
When applying direct tuning MLM and label smoothing , the gap has been widened , speciﬁcally , 0.9218 for MLP Head and 0.9170 for LSTM Head .
Figure 3 : Confusion matrix on the public validation set In the table , hierarchical tuning and back translation method did not yield better results than direct tuning without back translation one .
Nevertheless , we expect this method can generalize well on many different distributed datasets and thus , we ensembled the two versions with voting and submitted to the private test benchmark .
We ended up at top 9 on the leaderboard with 0.9005 F1 - score and
489Table 2 : Some failures of our system .
Text Model prediction Truth label Some people metaphorically shake their walking sticks at the TV like Grandpa Simpson & amp ; rage ” ﬂu has already killed thousands in USA ” , ” but guns have already killed over 6,000 in USA this year ” - all true .
But Coronavirus is In Addition to those deaths .
HTTPURLINFORMATIVE UNINFORMATIVE 2/26 PCR test 2/27 Negative result 2/28 X - ray shows n.p . Discharge .
Stay near Haneda airport 2/29 Akita airport Return 3/6 Follow up : Visit B in Akita .
Fever & amp ; cough - B consults with designated outpatient service ( C ) And PCR + covid19
HTTPURLINFORMATIVE UNINFORMATIVE Amazon and Facebook ask Seattle employees to work from home after coronavirus cases HTTPURLUNINFORMATIVE INFORMATIVE Third of Sacramento coronavirus cases linked to church events - Los Angeles Times .
Pathetic !
HTTPURLUNINFORMATIVE INFORMATIVE 0.9301 Recall , in which our Recall score reached the second place .
4.4 Error Analysis A question that as important as designing a subtle method is “ what make the model fail ” .
By answering this question we can gain an insight into our model performance and further improve it .
The method used for analyzing is the bottom row in Table 1 .
Firstly , we plot confusion matrix ( Figure 3 ) , observe that both True Positive and True Negative are evenly distributed with a small proportion of False Negative and False Positive , indicating our model did not bias towards any classes .
Secondly , we randomly sample some failures the model made ( Table 2 ) .
It seems like sentences containing more numbers are usually ( mis)classiﬁed as INFORMATIVE while the ones containing less numbers are classiﬁed as UNINFORMATIVE .
This can be explained that INFORMATIVE tweets provide information about recovered , suspected , conﬁrmed and death cases .
Therefore , numbers appearance is inevitable .
5 Conclusion In this paper , we have explored and proposed our pipeline to solve the Identiﬁcation of Informative COVID-19 English Tweet task by using a pretrained universal language model .
By conductinga lot of experiments , we have demonstrated that the use of RoBERTa and our ﬁne - tuning strategy is highly effective in text classiﬁcation tasks .
With our proposed methods , we have achieved prominent results on the WNUT Task 2 .
For future work , we will design more complex classiﬁcation head architectures to improve model ’s performance as well as solving problems indicated in Section 4.4 .
Furthermore , we would like to employ our model and pipeline in different languages such as Vietnamese to see how they adapt to new languages .
References Jacob Devlin , Ming - Wei Chang , Kenton Lee , and Kristina Toutanova . 2018 .
Bert : Pre - training of deep bidirectional transformers for language understanding .
Sergey Edunov , Myle Ott , Michael Auli , and David Grangier . 2018 .
Understanding back - translation at scale .
Jeremy Howard and Sebastian Ruder .
2018 .
Universal language model ﬁne - tuning for text classiﬁcation .
Yinhan Liu , Myle Ott , Naman Goyal , Jingfei Du , Mandar Joshi , Danqi Chen , Omer Levy , Mike Lewis , Luke Zettlemoyer , and Veselin Stoyanov .
2019 .
Roberta : A robustly optimized bert pretraining approach .
490Ilya Loshchilov and Frank Hutter . 2017 .
Decoupled weight decay regularization .
Tomas Mikolov , Kai Chen , Greg Corrado , and Jeffrey Dean .
2013 .
Efﬁcient estimation of word representations in vector space .
Tomas Mikolov , Edouard Grave , Piotr Bojanowski , Christian Puhrsch , and Armand Joulin .
2018 .
Advances in pre - training distributed word representations .
In Proceedings of the International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation ( LREC 2018 ) .
Dat Quoc Nguyen , Thanh Vu , Afshin Rahimi , Mai Hoang Dao , Linh The Nguyen , and Long Doan .
2020 .
WNUT-2020 Task 2 : Identiﬁcation of Informative COVID-19 English Tweets .
In Proceedings of the 6th Workshop on Noisy User - generated Text .
Jeffrey Pennington , Richard Socher , and Christopher Manning .
2014 .
GloVe : Global vectors for word representation .
In Proceedings of the 2014 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing ( EMNLP ) , pages 1532–1543 , Doha , Qatar .
Association for Computational Linguistics . A. Radford , Jeffrey Wu , R. Child , David Luan , Dario Amodei , and Ilya Sutskever . 2019 .
Language models are unsupervised multitask learners .
Christian Szegedy , Vincent Vanhoucke , Sergey Ioffe , Jonathon Shlens , and Zbigniew Wojna . 2015 .
Rethinking the inception architecture for computer vision .
Qizhe Xie , Zihang Dai , Eduard Hovy , Minh - Thang Luong , and Quoc V .
Le . 2019 .
Unsupervised data augmentation for consistency training .
