Proceedings of the 24th Conference on Computational Natural Language Learning , pages 256–264 Online , November 19 - 20 , 2020 .
c  2020 Association for Computational Linguistics https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/P17256Relations between comprehensibility and adequacy errors in machine translation output Maja Popovi ´ c ADAPT Centre , School of Computing Dublin City University , Ireland maja.popovic@adaptcentre.ie
Abstract
This work presents a detailed analysis of translation errors perceived by readers as comprehensibility and/or adequacy issues .
The main ﬁnding is that good comprehensibility , similarly to good ﬂuency , can mask a number of adequacy errors .
Of all major adequacy errors , 30 % were fully comprehensible , thus fully misleading the reader to accept the incorrect information .
Another 25 % of major adequacy errors were perceived as almost comprehensible , thus being potentially misleading .
Also , a vast majority of omissions ( about 70 % ) is hidden by comprehensibility .
Further analysis of misleading translations revealed that the most frequent error types are ambiguity , mistranslation , noun phrase error , word - by - word translation , untranslated word , subject - verb agreement , and spelling error in the source text .
However , none of these error types appears exclusively in misleading translations , but are also frequent in fully incorrect ( incomprehensible inadequate ) and discarded correct ( incomprehensible adequate ) translations .
Deeper analysis is needed to potentially detect underlying phenomena speciﬁcally related to misleading translations .
1 Introduction While automatic evaluation metrics are very important and invaluable tools for rapid development of machine translation ( MT ) systems , they are only a substitution for human assessment of translation quality .
Various methods have been proposed and used for the human evaluation of MT quality by assigning overall scores to MT outputs , such as ( ALPAC , 1966 ; White et
al . , 1994 ; Koehn and Monz , 2006 ; Callison - Burch et al . , 2007 ; Roturier and Bensadoun , 2011 ; Graham et al . , 2013 ; Barrault et al . , 2019 ) , and all of them rely on at least one of the three translation quality criteria : comprehensibility ( comprehension , intelligibility ) , adequacy(ﬁdelity , semantic accuracy ) , and ﬂuency ( grammaticality ) .
Comprehensibility reﬂects the degree to which a translated text can be understood , adequacy reﬂects the degree to which the translation conveys the meaning of the original text in the source language , and ﬂuency reﬂect the grammar of the translated text .
The raters are usually asked to assign an overall score for the given translation criterion .
In order to get more details about translation performance , error classiﬁcation and analysis emerged in the ﬁeld of MT ( Vilar et al . , 2006 ; Lommel et al . , 2014 ; Klubi ˇcka et al . , 2018 ; Van Brussel et
al . , 2018 )
.
However , there is less work dealing with human perception of MT quality and errors .
For statistical phrase - based MT systems ( SMT ) , Kirchhoff et al . ( 2014 ) and Federico et al .
( 2014 ) were identifying error types which are mostly disliked by readers .
In the last ﬁve years , systems based on artiﬁcial neural networks ( NMT ) have become the new state of the art .
Several evaluation studies , such as ( Castilho et al . , 2017 ; Klubi ˇcka et al . , 2018 ; Van Brussel et al . , 2018 ) reported that these systems are able to produce more ﬂuent and readable translations , but that they are still sufferring from adequacy issues .
In addition , many participants mentioned that good ﬂuency of NMT outputs makes it more difﬁcult to spot adequacy errors such as omissions or mistranslations .
Such “ ﬂuently inadequate ” errors may mislead readers into trusting the content based on ﬂuency alone , especially when surrounded by ﬂuent and adequate parts of a text ( Martindale and Carpuat , 2018 ) .
Automatic identiﬁcation of such errors for both SMT and NMT systems has been investigated in ( Martindale et al . , 2019 ) and it is conﬁrmed that these errors appear much more often in NMT system .
To the best of our knowlegde , comprehensibility , while being a very important translation quality factor , has not been investigated in depth yet .
It
257should be stressed that comprehensibility is very different from ﬂuency – a ﬂuent text can be incomprehensible ( for example “ Colorless green ideas sleep furiously . ” ) , and vice versa ( for example “ All these experiment was carry out this year . ” ) .
Our main research questions are : RQ1 Are there “ comprehensible inadequate ” translations which are misleading human readers so that they fully trust the MT output despide adequacy errors ?
In other words : how many adequacy errots are perceived as comprehensible ?
RQ2 If the answer to the RQ1 is “ yes ” , which types of translation errors are mainly related to these translations ?
As a ﬁrst step , a group of evaluators annotated problematic parts of the given machine translated text .
They were not asked to assign any error labels , only to mark the parts of the text which they perceived as problematic for the given translation criterion .
They ﬁrst annotated all comprehensibility issues , and after about two weeks , all adequacy issues .
For each criterion , they were asked to distinguish major and minor issues .
We then analysed all major issues in order to examine relations between comprehensibility and adequacy and identify error types .
The analysis was carried out on English user reviews ( as a case of “ mid - way ” genre between formal and informal written language ) translated into Croatian and Serbian ( as a case of mid - size less - resourced morphologically rich European languages ) .
It is worth noting that the aim of this work is not to compare MT systems , nor to estimate their overall performance for the given language pairs and domain in order to potentially improve them .
The aim of this work is to explore relations between two aspects of human perception of translation quality .
2 Related work Lot of research on MT evaluation deals with classiﬁcation and analysis of MT errors , for example ( Vilar et al . , 2006 ; Farr ´ us et al . , 2010 ; Stymne and Ahrenberg , 2012 ; Lommel et al . , 2014 ; Klubi ˇcka et al . , 2018 ) .
Few papers deal with human perception of these errors , but neither of them deﬁnes precisely which criterion is the translation quality based on .
Kirchhoff et
al .
( 2014 ) uses conjoint analysis to investigate user preferences for error types of SMT systems .
First , the errors in MT outputs were annotated , and then MT outputs with different error types were given to the crowd evaluators .
They were asked to choose the MT output which they like best and to give the reason for their preference .
One of the ﬁndings is that the frequencies of error types are not related to the user preferences .
The most dispreferred error type was word order error , although it was the least frequent one .
It was followed by word sense errors ( ambiguity ) , then morphological errors ( most frequent ones ) , whereas errors in function words were the most tolerable .
A similar study on SMT outputs based on linear mixed - effects models is described in ( Federico et al . , 2014 ) , aiming to estimate the impact of different translation errors to the overall translation quality .
For each MT output , experts were asked to assign a score on a 5 - point scale while other experts annotated the errors .
The results conﬁrmed that the frequency of errors of a given type does not correlate with human preferences .
Another ﬁnding is that omissions and mistranslations have the highest impact on the overall translation quality .
In addition , it is observed that certain combinations of errors have less impact than each of those error types ocurring in isolation .
In the last few years , with the emergence of NMT systems which generate much more ﬂuent and readable outputs but still are prone to adequacy errors , some studies have concentrated on investigating adequacy and ﬂuency errors .
Martindale and Carpuat ( 2018 ) carried out a survey to determine how users respond to good translations compared to translations that are either adequate but not ﬂuent , or ﬂuent but not adequate .
This study showed that users strongly disliked disﬂuent translations , but were much less bothered with adequacy errors .
Therefore , it was concluded that ﬂuent translations with adequacy errors can mislead the reader to trust an incorrect meaning .
Automatic identiﬁcation of these misleading “ ﬂuently inadequate ” translations using source text , reference human translation and MT output was proposed in ( Martindale et al . , 2019 ) , and the main ﬁnding was that NMT systems generate more misleading translations than SMT systems .
However , the question about how many adequacy errors are actually hidden by ﬂuency remained open .
To the best of our knowledge , the relation be-
258tween adequacy and comprehensibility has not been investigated yet .
Comprehensibility , similarly to ﬂuency , has an immediate effect on the reader , while adequacy problems can be perceived only if the reader has access to the source text or to a correct translation to ﬁnd out that the meaning is wrong .
This means that comprehensibility may have the same misleading effect making the reader accept an incorrect information .
On the other hand , because comprehensibility is different than ﬂuency ( ﬂuent sentences can be incomprehensible and vice versa ) , the effects might be different .
3 Data set Our analysis has been carried out on written usergenerated content , namely user reviews .
Two types of publicly available user reviews written in English have been analysed : IMDb movie reviews1(Maas et al . , 2011 ) and Amazon product reviews2(McAuley et al . , 2015 ) .
A set of those user reviews was translated into Croatian and Serbian , two closely related mid - size less - resourced morphologically rich European languages .
The reviews were translated3by three on - line systems : Google Translate4 , Bing5and Amazon translate6 .
The analysed text consists of a mixture of MT outputs from the three systems including 222 translated reviews consisting of about 1500 sentences ( segments ) and 19837 untokenised words in total .
This text was then given to the annotators to mark comprehensibility and adequacy issues , and the process is described in details in the next section .
The annotated text is publicly available under the Creative Commons CC - BY licence.7 3.1 Annotating comprehensibility and adequacy issues As mentioned in Introduction , comprehensibility reﬂects the degree to which a translated text can be understood , and adequacy reﬂects the degree to which the translation conveys the meaning of 1https://ai.stanford.edu/ ˜amaas / data/ sentiment/ 2http://jmcauley.ucsd.edu/data/amazon/ 3at the end of January 2020
4https://translate.google.com/ 5https://www.bing.com/translator 6https://aws.amazon.com/translate/ 7https://github.com/m-popovic/ QRev - annotations / tree / master/ initial - analysisthe original text in the source language .
Comprehension should be assessed without access to the original text in the source language ( or a correct translation ) , while the original text ( or a correct translation ) is mandatory for adequacy .
Therefore , each annotator ﬁrst completed the annotation of comprehension issues while reading only the translation .
After completing ( usually after about two weeks ) , they annotated adequacy issues by comparing the translation with the original source text .
For each criterion , the annotators were asked to distinguish two levels of issues : major issues and minor issues .
While for this particular study we are interested only in major issues , we did not want any errors to remain unannotated .
The following guidelines were given to the annotators : Comprehensibility : mark all parts of the text ( single words , small or long phrases , or entire sentences ) which are not understandable ( it does not make sense , it is not clear what it is about , etc . )
as major issues ; mark all parts of the text ( again : words , phrases or sentences ) which seem understandable but contain grammatical or stylistic errors as minor issues ; if it seems that something is missing , add “ XXX ” to the corresponding position .
Adequacy : mark all parts of the translation ( single words , small or long phrases , or entire sentences ) which have different meaning than the original English text as major issues ; mark all parts of the translation ( again : words , phrases or sentences ) which do not actually change the meaning of the source text , but contain sub - optimal lexical choices or grammar errors as minor issues ; if some parts of the original English text are missing in the translation , add ” XXX ” to the corresponding position in the translation ; if there are any errors in the source language8 ( spelling or grammar errors , etc . ) , mark its 8Detailed instructions for errors in the source text are particularly relevant for evaluating user generated content .
259translation as major or minor issue if it does not correspond to the intented English word even though it is a correct translation of the erroneous English word .
The annotators were seeing the entire reviews during the process , not only isolated segments or blocks of 2 - 3 segments .
In this way , it was ensured that the annotators were able to spot any contextdependent issues .
We wanted the texts to be annotated by a reliable group of readers which is neither too homogeneous as a group of professional translators nor too heterogeneous as crowd evaluators .
Therefore , the annotation was performed by computational linguistics researchers and students , ﬂuent in the source language and native speakers of the target language .
They had different backgrounds , coming from technical studies , translation studies as well as from humanities .
Because the annotators were not asked to perform any ﬁne - grained categorisation , the interannotator agreement was high – annotators assigned identical issue tags to more than 70 % of words .
More details about the annotation process can be found in ( Popovi ´ c , 2020 ) .
4 Analysis of comprehensibility and adequacy issues Table 1 presents overall percentages9of words perceived as issues , separately for each of the two translation criteria .
In total ( including both target languages and all three MT systems ) , 9.5 % words in the text were perceived as incomprehensible , and the meaning of 9.9 % words was changed in the translation process .
As for minor issues , 13.5 % words were perceived as slightly difﬁcult to understand , and 12.8 % were not translated in the optimal way .
It can be noted that the overall amounts of comprehensibility and adequacy issues are similar .
However , it does not necessarily mean that the majority of words is perceived both as incomprehensible and inadequate .
Therefore , we examined major comprehensibility and adequacy issues in depth .
9raw counts divided by the total number of words in the text including those without issues and the omission marks “ XXX”quality aspect grade raw count % words comprehension major 1887 9.5 minor 2673 13.5 adequacy major 1963 9.9 minor 2539 12.8 Table 1 : Raw counts and percentages of words ( normalised by the total number of words , including those without issues and the omission marks “ XXX ” ) perceived as problematic for comprehensibility and adequacy .
4.1 Relations between different types of issues In order to determine presence or absence of misleading translations , we explored the following cases of different relations between comprehensibility and adequacy errors : only major adequacy issue A maj ( comprehensible inadequate translation ) – incorrect information is accepted – The meaning of the original text is changed but the translation is readable and comprehensible .
The reader feels comfortable with the text and does not notice any problem , thus accepting the incorrect meaning . Amaj+Cmin – major adequacy and minor comprehension issues ( almost comprehensible inadequate translation ) – incorrect information can be accepted – The meaning of the original text is changed , and the reader ﬁnds this incorrect meanining slightly difﬁcult to understand .
The reader is therefore susceptible to accept this incorrect meaning .
Amaj+Cmaj – both major issues ( incomprehensible inadequate translation ) – incorrect information is discarded – The meaning of the original text is changed , and the reader is not able to understand this changed meaning .
The reader clearly notices that there is something wrong with the text .
Cmaj+Amin – major comprehension and minor adequacy issues ( incomprehensible almost adequate translation )
– almost correct information is discarded – The meaning of the original text is basically conveyed to the translation , only not in an
260affected words issue types raw count % words
% A maj only A maj 588 2.96 30.0 Amaj+Cmin 490 2.47 24.9 Amaj+Cmaj 885 4.46 45.1 Cmaj+Amin 342 1.72 only C maj 660 3.33 Cmin+Amin 1254 6.32 only C min 929 4.68 only A min 943 4.75 Table 2 : Raw counts and percentages of words ( normalised by the total number of words , including those without issues and the omission marks “ XXX ” ) of all combinations of perceived issue types .
For cases involving major adequacy issues , the percentages normalised by the total number of major adequacy issues are shown , too , in order to estimate the portion of hidden adequacy issues .
For the sake of completenes , the numbers are presented for minor issues , too , although they were not further analysed in this work .
optimal way , but the reader can not understand it .
The reader is thus missing some correct information .
only major comprehension issue C maj ( incomprehensible adequate translation ) – correct information is discarded – The meaning of the original text is correctly conveyed to the translation , but the reader can not understand it .
The reader is therefore not able to get the fully correct information .
Table 2 presents raw counts and percentages of words perceived in the described ways .
For the sake of completeness , the numbers for minor issue types are shown as well .
The numbers are generally in line with the ﬁndings of the previous work ( Kirchhoff et al . , 2014 ; Federico et al . , 2014 ) regarding lack of correlation between the error frequency and perception of severity – in our texts , the frequencies of words perceived only as minor issues are higher than the frequencies of words perceived as major issues .
As already mentioned , minor issues were not further analysed in this work , because by deﬁnition they were not perceived as essential : either the meaning was preserved although not conveyed in the best way , or the translation was slightly difﬁcult to understand , or both .
Misleading translations Table 2 shows that about 3 % of words in the translated text are mis - leading , and 2.5 % are potentially misleading .
This means that of every 100 words in the translation , 3 are fully accepted by the reader although their meaning is not correct , and 2 can be potentially accepted .
Furthermore , from all major adequacy errors in the text , only 45.5 % are incomprehensible .
About 30 % of adequacy errors are fully hidden so that the reader does not notice any problem , and about 25 % are partially hidden because the reader is not fully sure that s / he understands the text , but s / he is very susceptible to accept the meaning .
All in all , the portion of misleading translations is not negligible , so we continued our analysis by trying to identify error types associated with such translations .
Also , we wanted to explore whether there are error types related ( almost ) exclusively to them .
4.2 Error types For each ( group of ) word(s ) perceived as compreensibility or adequacy major issue , we assigned an error type .
The error types were not predeﬁned by any particular error typology , but identiﬁed while looking into the text .
It is worth noting that many error types were identiﬁed , but most of them are ocurring rarely in the text .
Also , for some of the annotated words no particular error type could be deﬁned , which is probably an effect of annotators ’ personal preferences .
The most frequent error types perceived as misleading translations can be deﬁned as follows : ambiguity The obtained translation for the given word is in principle correct , but not in the given context ( word sense error ) .
mistranslation The obtained translation for the given word is incorrect .
noun phrase An English sequence consisting of a head noun and additional nouns and adjectives is incorrectly translated .
Formation rules for Serbian and Croatian are rather different than for English and there is often no unique solution .
The examples in the table below represent two English noun collocations and their reference translations into Serbian and Croatian together with the corresponding English glosses .
This
261type of issue is relevant for many Slavic languages .
language NP1 NP2 en grill cover chocolate cake sr / hr poklopac za ro ˇstilj ˇcokoladni kola ˇc gloss cover for grill ‘ chocolaty ’ cake spelling error in source A word in the original text in the source language has spelling errors which result in incorrect translation .
This type of issue is especially relevant for user - generated content .
subject - verb agreement A verb inﬂection in the translation denoting person does not correspond to the subject .
untranslated
A word in the source language is simply copied to the translated text .
word - by - word translation A sequence of source words is translated as single words – the translation choice of each word looks random , both lexically and morphologically , without taking into account any context .
Table 3 shows these error types and their percentages for misleading translations .
These error types are the certainly “ dangerous ” because they can easily mislead the reader to accept incorrect information .
However , the very same error types are often perceived as fully incorrect ( incomprehensible inadequate ) , too .
Furthermore , they ( except of untranslated words ) even often lead to discarding correct information ( incomprehensible adequate ) .
Further in - depth analysis is needed to determine whether there are some underlying phenomena related exclusively to the misleading translations .
Five examples of different perceptions of ambiguity errors , noun phrase errors and word - by - word translations are presented in Table 4 .
All sentences except 3 ) have misleading parts ( fully misleading marked as red and potentially misleading as green ) .
In the sentences 1 ) and 2 ) there is only one misleading ambiguous word .
The incorrectly chosen variants of these words are fully comprehensible so that without the source text , the reader was not able to ﬁgure out that the information is not correct .
On the other hand , the ambiguous word in the sentence 3 ) , together with the noun phrase , is perceived asboth incomprehensible and inadequate ( marked as violet ) .
Sentences 4 ) and 5 ) illustrate how different parts of a phrase translated word - by - word are perceived in different ways : violet denotes fully incorrect , red denotes misleading , and cyan denotes discarding almost correct translation .
It might be worth noting that all sentences are perfectly ﬂuent except the sentence 3 ) which is very disﬂuent .
Propagation effect Table 3 also shows that there is a strong effect of propagation for comprehensibility – many correct words are perceived as incomprehensible because of errors in surrounding words .
In many cases , the reader ﬁnds the whole sentence incomprehensible .
An example of propagation can be seen in Table 5 .
All words in bold are correct , but all were perceived as major comprehensibility issues due to different types of errors in surrounding words : a red misleading omission , a fully incorrect violet word , and an incomprehensible group of almost correct cyan words .
It should be mentioned that for some adequacy errors , annotators also marked one or two neighbouring words which were not really incorrect , but that happened very rarely .
Omissions Since several studies reported that the omissions are generally problematic to spot without access to the source text , we compared the frequencies of omissions percieved only as comprehensibility issue , only as adequacy issue , and as both ( regardless of the severity grade ) .
Table 6 conﬁrms the previous ﬁndings : a vast majority of omissions ( 71.5 % ) was perceived only as adequacy error .
Only 9 % of actual omissions were also perceived as comprehensibility issues .
Apart from this , 19 % of omissions were perceived as exclusively comprehensibility issues and are not related to anything actually omitted from the source text .
The most probable reason is the inﬂuence of other surrounding errors , but further analysis is needed to better understand this effect .
5 Conclusions This work presents the results of a detailed analysis of translation errors perceived by readers as major comprehensibility and/or major adequacy issues .
The main ﬁnding is that good comprehensibility , similarly to good ﬂuency , can mask a number of adequacy errors .
Of all major adequacy errors , 30 % were fully comprehensible , thus fully misleading the reader to accept the incorrect information .
An-
262incorrect information is : discarded information is : accepted potentially accepted discarded almost correct correct only A maj Amaj+Cmin Amaj+Cmaj Cmaj+Amin only C maj ambiguity 24.0 ambiguity 24.8 ambiguity 26.7 ambiguity 16.4 propagation 33.3 mistranslation 6.0 mistranslation 8.9 mistranslation 8.2 noun phrase 8.4 ambiguity 14.4 word - by - word 5.0 noun phrase 8.4 noun phrase 6.9 mistranslation 5.8 noun phrase 7.0 noun phrase 4.4 untranslated 8.2 untranslated 6.7 fnoun case 5.8 g word - by - word 4.1 source spelling 3.8 word - by - word 5.4 word - by - word 5.5 word - by - word 5.8 mistranslation 3.7 subject - verb 3.8 ( subject - verb 3.2 ) ( subject - verb 4.5 ) subject - verb 4.9 ( subject - verb 2.0 ) untranslated 3.8 ( source spelling 2.4 ) ( source spelling 3.5 ) fPOS ambiguity 3.5 g(source spelling 1.2 ) Table 3 : The most frequent error types perceived as a particular issue combination .
The numbers represent percentages of the error type perceived as the issue combination – 24.0 % of all comprehensible inadequate translations ( accepted incorrect information ) are ambiguity errors , 6.0 % are mistranslations , etc .
Parentheses indicate that the error type was not in the top list for the given issue combination , but it is presented for comparison because it is in the top list for misleading traslations .
other 25 % of major adequacy errors were perceived as almost comprehensible , thus being potentially misleading .
In addition , a vast majority of omissions ( about 70 % ) is hidden by comprehensibility .
Further analysis of those misleading translations was carried out in order to ﬁnd out which types of translation errors are perceived in this way .
Ambiguous words , mistranslations , noun phrases , untranslated words , word - by - word translations , subject - verb agreement and spelling errors in the original text were identiﬁed as the most frequent error types in misleading translations .
Although noun phrase problems are typical for Slavic languages and errors in the source text are typical for user generated content , the rest of the error types is rather general .
However , none of these error types is exclusively related to misleading translations , but are also frequent in fully incorrect ( incomprehensible inadequate ) and discarded correct ( incomprehensible adequate ) translations .
Deeper analysis is needed to potentially detect underlying phenomena speciﬁcally related to misleading translations .
Apart from the obvious directions for future work such as analysing more texts and including more language pairs and domains , the presented analysis can be expanded in the following directions : including ﬂuency in the analysis , including all minor issues in the analysis , further analysis of omissions , and investigating co - ocurrences of different error types .
Another experiment could include monolingual annotators for comprehensibility in order to completely eliminate potential inﬂuence of knowlegde of the source language .
Acknowledgments This research is being conducted with the ﬁnancial support of the European Association for Machine Translation ( EAMT ) under its programme “ 2019 Sponsorship of Activities ” at the ADAPT Research Centre at Dublin City University .
The ADAPT SFI Centre for Digital Media Technology is funded by Science Foundation Ireland through the SFI Research Centres Programme and is co - funded under the European Regional Development Fund ( ERDF ) through Grant 13 / RC/2106 .
We would like to thank all the evaluators for providing us with annotations and feedback .
References ALPAC .
1966 .
Language and machines .
Computers in translation and linguistics .
Lo¨ıc Barrault , Ond ˇrej Bojar , Marta R. Costa - juss ` a , Christian Federmann , Mark Fishel , Yvette Graham , Barry Haddow , Matthias Huck , Philipp Koehn , Shervin Malmasi , Christof Monz , Mathias M ¨uller , Santanu Pal , Matt Post , and Marcos Zampieri .
2019 .
Findings of the 2019 conference on machine translation ( WMT19 ) .
In Proceedings of the Fourth Conference on Machine Translation ( Volume 2 : Shared Task Papers , Day 1 ) , pages 1–61 , Florence , Italy .
Association for Computational Linguistics .
Chris Callison - Burch , Cameron Fordyce , Philipp Koehn , Christof Monz , and Josh Schroeder . 2007 .
( meta- ) evaluation of machine translation .
In Proceedings of the Second Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation , pages 136–158 , Prague , Czech Republic .
Sheila Castilho , Joss Moorkens , Federico Gaspari , Iacer Calixto , John Tinsley , and Andy Way .
2017 .
Is neural machine translation the new state of the art ?
The Prague Bulletin of Mathematical Linguistics , 108(1):109 – 120 .
2631 )
A maj(misleading ) source Extremely uncomfortable MT Izuzetno neprijatno AMB gloss Extremely awkward 2 ) A maj(misleading ) source The special effects with the mummy ’s ghost MT Specijalni efekti s duhom mame AMB gloss The special effects with the mother ’s ghost 3 ) A maj+Cmaj(fully incorrect ) source
Best readily available food coloring MT Najbolje lako AMB obojenje hrane NP gloss Best easy coloring of food 4 ) A maj(misleading ) , A maj+Cmin(potentially misleading ) source they ﬁt easily under my snow pants and they do n’t show through MT lako se uklapaju AMB ispod mojih sne ˇznih pantalona
i ne prolaze WBW kroz njih WBW gloss they concord easily under my snow pants and not they go through them 5 ) A maj(misleading ) , A maj+Cmaj(fully incorrect ) ,
A min+Cmaj(almost correct discarded ) source No matter how much care I used in throwing it MT Bez obzira koliko briga WBW sam koristio WBW u bacanju
WBW gloss
No matter how many cares I used in the throwing Table 4 : Examples of ambiguity errors ( AMB ) , noun phrase errors ( NP ) and word - by - word translations ( WBW ) perceived as comprehensible inadequate ( red ) , almost comprehensible inadequate ( green ) , incomprehensible almost adequate ( cyan ) and incomprehensible inadequate translations ( violet ) .
source For the kind of shipping they want it would be reasonable to expect a better presentation .
MT Za vrstu dostave XXX ˇzele da bi bilorazumno o ˇcekivati bolju prezentaciju .
gloss For the kind of shipping fwhich gthey want that would be reasonable to expect better presentation .
Table 5 : Example of propagation effect for major comprehensibility issues .
All words in bold are correct , but perceived as incomprehensible due to different types of errors in surrounding words ( presented in colour ) .
Mireia Farr ´ us , Marta Ruiz Costa - Juss ` a , Jos ´ e B. Mario , and Jos ´ e Adri ´ an R. Fonollosa . 2010 .
Linguisticbased evaluation criteria to identify statistical machine translation errors .
In Proceedings of the 14th Annual Conference of the European Association for Machine Translation ( EAMT 2010 ) , St. Rapha ¨el , France .
Marcello Federico , Matteo Negri , Luisa Bentivogli , and Marco Turchi .
2014 .
Assessing the impact of translation errors on machine translation quality with mixed - effects models .
In Proceedings of the 2014 Conference on Empirical Methods in Naturalpercentage of omissions perceived : only as comprehensibility issues 19.2 only as adequacy issues 71.5 as both 9.3 Table 6 : Percentage of omissions perceived only as comprehensibility issues , only as adequacy issues , and as both types of issues .
Language Processing ( EMNLP 2014 ) , Doha , Qatar .
Yvette Graham , Timothy Baldwin , Alistair Moffat , and Justin Zobel .
2013 .
Continuous measurement scales in human evaluation of machine translation .
In Proceedings of the 7th Linguistic Annotation Workshop and Interoperability with Discourse , pages 33–41 , Soﬁa , Bulgaria .
Association for Computational Linguistics .
Katrin Kirchhoff , Daniel Capurro , and Anne M. Turner .
2014 .
A conjoint analysis framework for evaluating user preferences in machine translation .
Machine Translation , 28(1):117 .
Filip Klubi ˇcka , Antonio Toral , and V ´ ıctor M. S ´ anchezCartagena . 2018 .
Quantitative Fine - grained Human Evaluation of Machine Translation Systems : A Case Study on English to Croatian .
Machine Translation , 32(3):195–215 .
264Philipp Koehn and Christof Monz .
2006 .
Manual and automatic evaluation of machine translation between European languages .
In Proceedings on the Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation , pages 102 – 121 , New York City .
Arle Lommel , Aljoscha Burchardt , Maja Popovi ´ c , Kim Harris , Eleftherios Avramidis , and Hans Uszkoreit .
2014 .
Using a new analytic measure for the annotation and analysis of MT errors on real data .
In Proceedings of the 17th Annual Conference of the European Association for Machine Translation ( EAMT 2014 ) , pages 165–172 .
Andrew L. Maas , Raymond E. Daly , Peter T. Pham , Dan Huang , Andrew Y .
Ng , and Christopher Potts . 2011 .
Learning Word Vectors for Sentiment Analysis .
In Proceedings of the 49th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics and Human Language Technologies ( ACL - HLT 2011 ) , pages 142–150 , Portland , Oregon , USA .
Marianna Martindale and Marine Carpuat .
2018 .
Fluency over adequacy : A pilot study in measuring user trust in imperfect MT .
In Proceedings of the 13th Conference of the Association for Machine Translation in the Americas ( AMTA 2018 ) , pages 13–25 , Boston , MA .
Marianna Martindale , Marine Carpuat , Kevin Duh , and Paul McNamee .
2019 .
Identifying ﬂuently inadequate output in neural and statistical machine translation .
In Proceedings of Machine Translation Summit XVII , pages 233–243 , Dublin , Ireland .
Julian McAuley , Christopher Targett , Qinfeng Shi , and Anton van den Hengel . 2015 .
Image - Based Recommendations on Styles and Substitutes .
In Proceedings of the 38th International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval ( SIGIR 2015 ) , pages 43–52 , Santiago , Chile .
Maja Popovi ´ c. 2020 .
Informative manual evaluation of machine translation output .
In Proceedings of the 28th International Conference on Computational Linguistics ( COLING 2020 ) , Online .
Johann Roturier and Anthony Bensadoun .
2011 .
Evaluation of MT Systems to Translate User Generated Content .
In Proceedings of the MT Summit XIII , Xiamen , China .
Sara Stymne and Lars Ahrenberg .
2012 .
On the practice of error analysis for machine translation evaluation .
In Proceedings of the Eighth International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation ( LREC 2012 ) , pages 1785–1790 , Istanbul , Turkey .
Laura Van Brussel , Arda Tezcan , and Lieve Macken .
2018 .
A ﬁne - grained error analysis of NMT , SMT and RBMT output for English - to - Dutch .
In Proceedings of the Eleventh International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation ( LREC 2018 ) , Miyazaki , Japan .
David Vilar , Jia Xu , Luis Fernando D’Haro , and Hermann Ney . 2006 .
Error analysis of statistical machine translation output .
In Proceedings of the Fifth International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation ( LREC’06 ) , Genoa , Italy .
European Language Resources Association ( ELRA ) .
John White , Theresa O’Connell , and Francis O’Mara . 1994 .
The ARPA MT evaluation methodologies : evolution , lessons , and future approaches .
In Proceedings of the 1994 Conference , Association for Machine Translation in the Americas , pages 193 – 205 .
