Proceedings of the 2021 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing , pages 10758–10768 November 7–11 , 2021 .
c  2021 Association for Computational Linguistics10758Multivalent Entailment Graphs for Question Answering Nick M cKennayLiane GuillouyMohammad Javad Hosseiniyz
Sander Bijl de VroeyMark JohnsonxMark Steedmany yUniversity of EdinburghzAlan Turing Institute , UKxOracle Digital Assistant { nick.mckenna , javad.hosseini , sbdv}@ed.ac.uk { lguillou , steedman}@inf.ed.ac.uk mark.mj.johnson@oracle.com
Abstract Drawing inferences between open - domain natural language predicates is a necessity for true language understanding .
There has been much progress in unsupervised learning of entailment graphs for this purpose .
We make three contributions : ( 1 ) we reinterpret the Distributional Inclusion Hypothesis to model entailment between predicates of different valencies , like DEFEAT ( Biden , Trump ) WIN(Biden ) ; ( 2 ) we actualize this theory by learning unsupervised Multivalent Entailment Graphs of open - domain predicates ; and ( 3 ) we demonstrate the capabilities of these graphs on a novel question answering task .
We show that directional entailment is more helpful for inference than non - directional similarity on questions of ﬁne - grained semantics .
We also show that drawing on evidence across valencies answers more questions than by using only the same valency evidence .
1 Introduction We are reading a mystery about a dark and foreboding manor and have one question : “ is Mr. Boddy dead?”1Our text might say “ Colonel Mustard killed Mr. Boddy , ” or “ Mr. Boddy was murdered in the kitchen with a candlestick , ” either of which answers the question , but only via natural language inference .
An Entailment Graph ( EG ) is a structure of meaning postulates supporting these inferences such as “ if A kills B , then B is dead . ”
Entailment Graphs contain vertices of opendomain natural language predicates and entailments between them are represented as directed edges .
Previous models learn predicates of a single valency , the number and types of arguments controlled by the predicate .
Commonly these are binary graphs , which can not model single - argument predicates like the entity states “ is dead ” or “ is an Now at Google Research .
1The murder mystery board game Clue ( also known as Cluedo ) lends inspiration to this project.author . ”
This means they miss a variety of entailments in text that could be used to answer questions such as our example .
The Distributional Inclusion Hypothesis ( DIH ) ( Dagan et al . , 1999 ; Kartsaklis and Sadrzadeh , 2016 ) is a theory which has been used effectively in unsupervised learning of these same - valency entailment graphs ( Geffet and Dagan , 2005 ; Berant et
al . , 2010 ; Hosseini , 2021 ) .
In this work the DIH is reinterpreted in a way which supports learning entailments between predicates of different valencies such as KILL ( Mustard , Boddy ) DIE(Boddy ) .
We extend the work of Hosseini et al .
( 2018 ) and develop a new Multivalent Entailment Graph ( MGraph ) where vertices may be predicates of different valencies .
This results in new kinds of entailments that answer a broader range of questions including entity state .
We further pose a true - false question answering task generated automatically from news text .
Our model draws inferences across propositions of different valencies to answer more questions than using same - valence entailment graphs .
We also compare with several baselines , including unsupervised pretrained language models , and show that our directional entailment graphs succeed over non - directional similarity measures in answering questions of ﬁne - grained semantics .
Advantageously , EGs are structures designed to be queried , so they are inherently explainable .
This research is conducted in English , but as an unsupervised algorithm it may be applied to other languages given a parser and named entity linker .
2 Background The task of recognizing textual entailment ( Dagan et al . , 2006 ) requires models to predict a relation between a text T and hypothesis H ; “ T entails H if , typically , a human reading T would infer that H is most likely true . ”
From here , research has moved in several directions .
We study predicates , including verbs and phrases that apply to arguments .
10759Research in predicate entailment graphs has evolved from “ local ” learning of entailment rules ( Geffet and Dagan , 2005 ; Szpektor and Dagan , 2008 ) to later work on joint learning of “ globalized ” rules , overcoming sparsity in local graphs ( Berant et al . , 2010 ; Hosseini et al . , 2018 ) .
These graphs frequently rely on the DIH for the local learning step to learn initial predicate entailments .
The DIH states that for some predicates p and q , if the contextual features of p are included in those of q , then p entails q ( Geffet and Dagan , 2005 ) .
In previous work predicate arguments are successfully used as these contextual features , but only predicates of the same valency are considered ( e.g. binary predicates entail binary ; unary entail unary ) , and further research computes additional edges in these same - valency graphs such as with link prediction ( Hosseini et al . , 2019 ) .
However , this leaves out crucial inferences that cross valencies such as the kill / die example , which are easy for humans .
We generalize the DIH to learn entailments within and across valencies .
Typing is very helpful for entailment graph learning ( Berant et al . , 2010 ; Lewis and Steedman , 2013 ; Hosseini et al . , 2018 ) .
Inducing a type for each entity such as “ person , ” “ location , ” etc . enables generalized learning across instances and disambiguates word sense , e.g. “ running a company ” has different entailments than “ running code . ”
We compare our model to several baselines , including strong pretrained language models in an unsupervised setting using similarity .
BERT ( Devlin et al . , 2019 ) generates impressive word representations , even unsupervised ( Petroni et al . , 2019 ) , which we compare with on a task of predicate inference .
We further test RoBERTa ( Liu et al . , 2019 ) to show the impact of robust in - domain pretraining on the same architecture .
These non - directional similarity models provide a strong baseline for evaluating directional entailment graphs .
3 Multivalent Distributional Inclusion Hypothesis We pose a new , multivalent interpretation of the DIH ( the MDIH ) which models the entailment of predicates across valencies .
The intuition comes from observing eventualities ( Vendler , 1967 ) which occur in the world .
Neo - Davidsonian semantics ( Davidson , 1967 ; Maienborn , 2011 ) explains that a textual predicate , its arguments , and adjuncts , are all properties of an underlying event variable .
En - tailments about one or more of the arguments arise from their roles in this eventuality .
We may infer that “ Mr. Boddy died ” due to his role as a direct object in the killing / murdering event .
No other information is needed , including who murdered Mr. Boddy , where , or with what instrument .
Boddy is dead simply because he was murdered .
We build on this insight to develop the MDIH .
Here , a predicate is represented ( as in § 2 ) by features which are the argument tuples it appears with .
We recognize a tuple as a proxy for a world event , e.g. VISIT ( Obama , Hawaii ) identiﬁes one instance of a real VISIT event .
Our method learns by tracking entity tuples across events in the world .
The MDIH signals an entailment from a premise p to hypothesis hif , distributionally , subtuples of p are always found amongst tuples of h. Crucially , we allowhto drop in valency so that we learn entailments about subsets of p ’s arguments .
We now formalize the MDIH and then illustrate with an example .
We deﬁne the argument tuple structures for a premise and hypothesis predicate : P = f(ak;1;:::;a k;I)jk2f1;:::;Mgg H = f(bk;1;:::;b k;J)jk2f1;:::;Ngg Pis a set ofMargument tuples ( each of size I ) which correspond to instances of a premise predicatep .
His a set ofNargument tuples ( each of sizeJ ) representing the same for hypothesis h.
We limitJI , e.g. we learn about relations on realized entity subsets .
We do not learn entailments to higher valencies ( such as a unary entailing a binary ) because additional arguments must be existential , not real .
We leave this to future work .
To select argument subtuples from tuples in P , we deﬁne a vector of indices jwith length J , which selects arguments by position .
For example , withj=
[ 2;3 ] , performP[:;j ] .
For each argument tuple inP , select just the 2nd and 3rd arguments , forming a new set of 2 - tuples .
We deﬁne the Multivalent Distributional Inclusion Hypothesis : IfP[:;j]H[:;m(j)],thenph Herem : NJ!NJis a simple bijective mapping from argument indices of ptoh .
An example wheremis needed for argument swapping is “ x boughty ” entails “ ysold tox . ”
We illustrate by working the kill / die example on a hypothetical corpus .
We might ﬁnd that
10760KILL(x;y)DIE(y)by trying j= [ 2 ] and m([2 ] )
=
[ 1 ] .
We start with P , all 2 - tuples of killings , andH , all 1 - tuples of dyings and apply j andm .
We may ﬁnd that selecting arg 2 from all tuples inPforms a subset of the selection of arg 1 from tuples in H.
Though dyings may happen in many ways , we observe that arg 2 of a killing often occurs elsewhere in the corpus with a dying , and thus we infer the entailment between predicates .
Intuitively this is true for arbitrarily large valencies : MURDER ( Mustard , Boddy , kitchen , candlestick ) entails KILL ( Mustard , Boddy ) and both entail DIE(Boddy ) .
Though arguments may be dropped from the premise , they still inﬂuence entailments .
This is because the MDIH tracks eventualities .
“ Person writing a book ” is a different kind of event than “ person writing software ” with a different distribution of argument tuples , so we learn that the former entails being an author , while the latter entails being a programmer .
4 Learning Multivalent Graphs We deﬁne an Entailment Graph as a directed graph of predicates and their entailments , G= ( V;E ) .
The vertices Vare the set of predicates , where each argument has a type from the set of 49 FIGER base typesT , e.g. TRAVEL .TO(:person , : location ) 2V , and : person , : location 2 T .
The directed edges areE = f(v1;v2)jv1;v22Vifv1v2 g , or all entailments between vertices in V. In Multivalent Entailment Graphs we expand V to contain predicates of both 1- and 2 - valency , and Eto edges between these vertices , described as follows .
Let bi;bj2Vbe distinct binary predicates andui;uj2Vbe unary predicates .
Deﬁne Eas the set of all entities in the world , and some particular entities x;y2E to illustrate argument slots .
Econtains these patterns of entailment : 1.bi(x;y)bj(x;y)orbi(x;y)bj(y;x ) Binary entails binary ( BBentailments ) 2.bi(x;y)ui(x)orbi(x;y)ui(y ) Binary entails unary of one argument ( BU ) 3.ui(x)uj(x )
Unary entails unary ( UU ) Predicates with valence > 2 are sparse in the text , but are also included in the MGraph by decomposing them into binary relations between pairs of entities .
This is another application of our Multivalent DIH .
We maintain argument roles , so eachbinary is a window into its higher - valency predicate , allowing higher - valency predicates to entail lower binaries and unaries .
To learn these new kinds of connections we develop a method of local entailment rule learning using the MDIH .
As in § 2 , the local step learns the initial directed edges of the entailment graph , which are further improved with global learning .
Our local step learns entailments by machine - reading the NewsSpike corpus ( 2.3 GB ) , which contains 550 K news articles , or over 20 M sentences ( Zhang and Weld , 2013 ) .
NewsSpike consists of multi - source news articles collected within a ﬁxed timeframe , and due to these properties the articles frequently discuss the same events but phrased in different ways , providing appropriate training evidence .
“ This evening Mr. Boddy was killed . ” )
KILL .2(Mr.-Boddy )
Figure 1 : A sentence is CCG parsed , formed into a dependency graph ( shown ) using CCG dependencies , and traversed to extract a unary relation .
MoNTEE traverses from a predicate to all connected arguments .
4.1 Extraction of Predicate Relations Our pipeline processes raw article text into a list of propositions : predicates with associated typed arguments .
We use the MoNTEE system ( Bijl de Vroe et al . , 2021 ) to extract natural language relations between entities from raw text2 .
This system ﬁrst parses sentences using the RotatingCCG parser ( Stanojevi ´ c and Steedman , 2019 ) ( Combinatory Categorial Grammar ; Steedman , 2000 ) and then forms dependency graphs from the parses .
Fi2We disable modality tagging in our experiments .
10761nally , it traverses these graphs to extract the relations , each consisting of a predicate and its arguments .
Figure 1 shows an example dependency graph and the relation extracted from it .
Arguments may be either named entities3or general entities ( noun phrases ) .
These entities are mapped to types by linking to their Freebase IDs ( Bollacker et al . , 2008 ) using AIDA - Light ( Nguyen et al . , 2014 ) , and mapping the IDs to the 49 base FIGER types ( Ling and Weld , 2012 ) .
Both binary and unary relations are extracted from the corpus if they contain at least one named entity , which helps anchor to a real - world event .
This poses a challenge as noted by Szpektor and Dagan ( 2008 ) .
While binary predicates may be extracted from dependency paths between two entities , unary predicates only have one endpoint , so we must carefully apply linguistic knowledge to extract meaningful unary relations .
We extract these neo - Davidsonian event cases : •One - argument verbs including intransitives , e.g. “ Knowles sang”)SING .1(Knowles ) and passivized transitives , e.g. “ Bill H.R. 1 was passed ” ) PASS .2(Bill - HR1 ) •Copular constructions , where copular “ be ” acts as the main verb , e.g. “ Chiang is an author ” ) BE.AUTHOR .1(Chiang )
and where it does not , e.g. “ Phelps seems to be the winner ” )
SEEM .TO.BE.WINNER .1(Phelps )
As with binaries in earlier work , unary predicates are lemmatized , and tense , aspect , modality , and other auxiliaries are stripped .
The CCG argument position which corresponds to its case ( e.g. 1 for nominative , 2 for accusative ) , is appended to the predicate .
Passive predicates are mapped to active ones .
Modiﬁers such as negation and predicates like “ planned to ” as in “ Professor Plum planned to attend ” are also extracted in the predicate .
We pay special attention to copular constructions , which always introduce stative predicates , rather than events ( Vendler , 1967 ) .
These are interesting for modeling the properties of entities .
4.2 Learning Local Graphs In previous entailment graph research ( Hosseini et al . , 2018 ) a representation vector is computed for each typed predicate in the graph .
These 3Identiﬁed by the CoreNLP Named Entitiy Recogniser ( Manning et al . , 2014 ; Finkel et al . , 2005).are compared via the DIH to establish entailment edges between predicates .
The features of each vector are typically based on the argument pairs seen with that predicate .
Speciﬁcally , for a typed predicatepwith corresponding vector v , vconsists of features fiwhich are the pointwise mutual information ( PMI ) of pand the argument pair ai2 f(em;en)jem2 Et1;en2 Et2 g. Here t1;t22 T , andEtis the subset of entities of type t.
For example , the predicate BUILD (: company , : thing ) might have some feature f37 , the PMI of “ build ” with argument pair ( Apple , iPhone ) .
A Balanced Inclusion ( BInc ) score is calculated for the directed entailment from one predicate to another ( Szpektor and Dagan , 2008 ) .
BInc is the geometric mean of two subscores : a directional score , Weeds Precision ( Weeds and Weir , 2003 ) , measuring how much one vector ’s features “ cover ” the other ’s ; and a symmetrical score , Lin Similarity ( Lin , 1998 ) , which downweights infrequent predicates that cause spurious false positives .
In this work we compute local binary graphs following Hosseini et al .
( 2018 ) and leverage the new MDIH to compute additional entailments for unaries and between valencies .
To do this we compute a vector for each argument slot respecting its position in the predicate .
For a predicate p , a slot vector v(s)fors2f1;2gconsists of features f(s ) i. We deﬁne  ( p;s ) = t , the type of slot sin predicate p. Eachf(s ) iis the PMI of pand the argument in slot s , a(s ) i2Et .
Slot vectors are computed for the slot in unary relations and both slots in binaries .
Each slot vector for phas sizejv(s)j = jEtj , the number of entities in the data with the same type t. Continuing the example , we calculate two vectors for BUILD (: company , : thing ): v(1)2RjE : companyj which contains a feature for Apple , and v(2)2 RjE : thingjwhich contains a feature for iPhone .
Slot vectors are comparable if they represent the same entity type .
Edges are learned by comparing corresponding slot vectors between predicates .
For instance , DEFEAT (: person1 , : person2 ) BE.WINNER (: person1)4is learned by comparing the slot 1 vector of DEFEAT with the slot 1 vector ofBE.WINNER .
If the entities who have defeated someone are usually found amongst the entities who are winners then we get a high BInc score , indicating defeat entails that its subject is a winner .
Figure 2 illustrates a Multivalent Graph .
This 4Here we number the typed arguments for demonstration to show which : person argument is in the entailment .
10762includes Bivalent Graphs which contain the entailments of binary predicates ( BB and BU edges ) , and separate Univalent Graphs which contain the entailments of unary predicates ( only UU edges , since we do not allow a unary to entail a binary ) .
We follow previous research and learn separate disjoint subgraphs for each typing , up to jTj2bivalent andjTjunivalent subgraphs given enough data .
For example , we learn a bivalent (: person , : location ) graph containing binary predicates such asFLY.INTO (: person , : location ) which may entail unaries like BE.AIRPORT (: location ) .
Because a unary has only one type tiit may be entailed by binaries in up to 2jTj  1subgraphs with typesf(ti;tj)jj2 Tg , i.e. all bivalent graphs containing type ti .
We learn entailments from unaries ( UU ) in separate 1 - type univalent graphs .
This efﬁciently learns one set of entailments for each unary , but allows them to be freely entailed by higher - valency predicates , e.g. binaries .
Bivalent graphs point transitively into univalent graphs .
In Figure 2 , DEFEAT (: person1 , : person2 )  BE.WINNER (: person1 ) in the person - person graph .
E.g. further entailments of BE.WINNER (: person ) are in the person univalent graph .
Person - Event GraphPerson - Event GraphPerson - Event GraphPerson - Event GraphPerson - Event GraphPerson - Event GraphPerson - Event GraphPerson - Event GraphPerson - Event GraphPerson - Event GraphPerson - Event GraphPerson - Event GraphPerson - Event GraphPerson - Event GraphPerson - Event GraphPerson - Event GraphPerson - Event Graph BE.WINNER (: person)WIN.IN(:person , : event )
Person - Person GraphPerson - Person GraphPerson - Person GraphPerson - Person GraphPerson - Person GraphPerson - Person GraphPerson - Person GraphPerson - Person GraphPerson - Person GraphPerson - Person GraphPerson - Person GraphPerson - Person GraphPerson - Person GraphPerson - Person GraphPerson - Person GraphPerson - Person GraphPerson - Person Graph BE.WINNER (: person1)DEFEAT (: person1 , : person2 ) OBLITERATE (: person1 , : person2 ) Bivalent Graphs Univalent Graphs Person GraphPerson GraphPerson GraphPerson GraphPerson GraphPerson GraphPerson GraphPerson GraphPerson GraphPerson GraphPerson GraphPerson GraphPerson GraphPerson GraphPerson GraphPerson GraphPerson Graph BE.WINNER (: person ) BE.CHAMPION (: person ) Figure 2 : Bivalent graphs model entailments from binary predicates to equal- and lower - valency predicates ( binary and unary ) .
Univalent graphs model entailments from unaries to equal - valency unary predicates.4.3 Learning Global Graphs Local learning of entailments suffers from sparsity issues which can be improved by further learning of “ global ” graphs .
We use the soft constraint method of Hosseini et al .
( 2018 ) which has two optimizations .
The paraphrase resolution constraint encourages predicates within the same typed graphs that entail each other to have similar entailment patterns .
The cross - graph constraint additionally encourages compatible predicates across different typed graphs to share entailment patterns .
We apply global learning to bivalent graphs and separately to univalent graphs .
Globalization is valency - agnostic , using just the common structures between predicates , so bivalent graphs can use BB and BU edges to optimize binary predicate entailments .
Final graph size statistics are in Table 1 .
Valency Vertices Edges Bivalent 938 K Binary 94 M BB / 30 M BU Univalent 36 K Unary 3.6 M UU Table 1 : We learn 546 typed bivalent subgraphs which contain entailments of binary predicate antecedents ( BB and BU ) ; and 37 typed univalent subgraphs which contain entailments of unary predicates ( UU ) .
5 Evaluation :
Question Answering We pose an automatically generated QA task to evaluate our model explicitly for directional inference between binary and unary predicates , as we are not aware of any standard datasets for this problem .
Our task is to answer true - false questions about real events that are discussed in the news , for example , “ Was Biden elected ? ”
These types of questions are surprisingly difﬁcult and frequently require inference to answer ( Clark et al . , 2019 ) .
For this , entailment is especially useful : we must decide if the question ( hypothesis ) is true given a list of propositions from limited news text ( premises ) , which are all likely to be phrased differently .
This task is designed independently of the MGraph as a challenge in information retrieval .
Positive questions made from binary and unary predicates are selected directly from the news text using special criteria , and are then removed .
From these positives we automatically generate false events to use as negatives , which are designed to mimic real , newsworthy events .
The remaining news text is used to answer the questions .
We at-
10763tempt to make every question answerable , but since they are generated automatically there is no guarantee .
However , the task is fair as all models are given the same information .
The additive effects of multivalent entailment should be demonstrated : with more kinds of entailment , the MGraph should ﬁnd more textual support and answer more questions .
The task is presented on a text sample from NewsCrawl , a multi - source corpus of news articles , to be published separately .
A test set is extracted which contains 700 K sentences from articles over a period of several months , and also a development set from a further 500 K sentences .
We generate questions balanced to a ratio of 50 % binary questions / 50 % unary ; and within each 50 % positive / 50 % negative .
Table 2 shows a sample from the dev set .
We generate 34,394 questions on the test set : 17,256 unary questions and 17,138 binary .
5.1 Question Generation For realism , questions should be both interesting andanswerable using the corpus .
A multi - step process extracts questions from the news text itself .
1 .
Partitioning .
First , the articles are grouped by publication date such that each partition covers a timespan of up to 3 consecutive days of news ( 49 partitions in the test set ) .
We ask yes - no questions about events drawn from the partition , and the news text within this 3 - day window is used as evidence to answer them .
We ask questions as if happening presently in this time window to control for the variable of time , so we can ask ambiguous questions like “ Did the Patriots win the Superbowl ? ” which may be “ true ” or not depending on the date and timespan .
The small 3 - day window size was chosen so multiple news stories about an event appear together , increasing the chances of ﬁnding question answers .
Within each partition we do relation extraction in a process mirroring § 4.1 .
2 . Selecting Positives .
We adapt a selection process from Poon and Domingos ( 2009 ) to choose good questions which are interesting to a human and answerable from the partition text .
First , we identify repeated entities that star in the events of the articles ; these will yield interesting questions as well as ample textual evidence for answering them .
In each partition we count the mentions of each entity pair ( from binary propositions ) and single entities ( from unary and binary ones ) .
The most frequent entities and pairs mentioned more than 5 times in the partition are selected .
Predicateswhich are mentioned across the entire news corpus 10 times or fewer are ﬁltered out ; we assume those remaining are popular to report in news and thus are interesting to a human questioner .
We randomly select propositions featuring both a star entity and predicate to use as questions , and remove them from the partition .
3 . Generating Negatives .
A simple strategy for producing negatives might seem to be substituting random predicates into the positive questions .
However , this is unsatisfactory because modern techniques in NLP excel at detecting unrelated words .
For example , a neural model will easily distinguish a random negative like DETONATE ( Google , YouTube ) from a news text discussing Google ’s acquisition of YouTube , classifying it as a false event on grounds of dissimilarity alone .
To be a meaningful test of inference this task requires that negatives be difﬁcult to discriminate from positives : they should be semantically related but should not logically follow from what is stated in the text .
To this end we derive negative questions from the selected positives using linguistic relations in WordNet ( Fellbaum , 1998 ) .
We assume that news text follows the Gricean cooperative principle of communication ( Davis , 2019 ) , such that it will report what facts are known and nothing more .
To this end , noun hyponyms and their verbal equivalent , troponyms , are mined from the ﬁrst sense of each positive in WordNet .
For example , we extract “ burn ” as a troponym of “ hurt ” and the phrase “ inherit from ” as a troponym of “ receive from . ”
We therefore expect that these speciﬁc relations will be untrue of the argument tuple in question and may be used as negatives .
We also considered antonyms and other WordNet relations , but these are much sparser in English and have low coverage .
For fairness , generated negatives which actually occur in the current partition are screened out ( 0.1 % of proposed negatives ) , as well as negatives which never occur in the entire corpus ( 76.8 % of proposed negatives ) .
Only challenging negatives are left , which actually do occur in real news text .
See Table 2 for a sample of questions .
In the error analysis we ﬁnd these negatives to be of good quality : they are uncommonly inferable from the text , accounting for a small percentage of false positives .
5.2 Question Answering Models
In each partition , models receive factual propositions extracted from 3 days of news text to use
10764Positive Negative Did the Ohio State Buckeyes play?Did the Ohio State Buckeyes fumble ?
Was Mitt Romney a candidate ?
Was Mitt Romney a write - in ?
Did voters reject Mike Huckabee?Did voters discredit Mike Huckabee ?
Did Roger Clemens receive from Brian McNamee?Did Roger Clemens inherit from Brian McNamee ?
Table 2 : A sample of dev set questions .
as evidence for answering true - false questions .
A model scores how strongly it can infer the question proposition from each evidence proposition , and we take the maximum score as the model conﬁdence of a “ true ” answer .
Exact - Match .
Our text is multi - source news articles , so world events are often discussed multiple times in the data , even with the same phrasing .
We compute an “ exact - match ” baseline which shows how many questions can be answered from an exact string match in the text ; the rest require inference .
Binary Entailment Graph .
Our BB model is roughly equivalent to the state of the art binary - tobinary entailment graph ( Hosseini et al . , 2018 ) , so it serves as a baseline for the overall model.5 All graph models look for directed entailments from evidence propositions to the question proposition .
For example , “ Was YouTube sold to Google ? ” can be answered afﬁrmatively by reading “ Google bought YouTube ” using the graph edge BUY(x;y)SELL .TO(y;x ) .
BInc scores range from 0 to 1 ; if no entailments are found we assume it is false ( score of 0 ) .
Multivalent Entailment Graph .
The MGraph is made of 3 component models : ( 1 ) the BB model which uses binary evidence to answer binary questions ; ( 2 ) the UU model which uses unary evidence to answer unary questions ; and ( 3 ) the BU model which uses binary evidence to answer unary questions .
The MGraph is able to answer questions using evidence across valencies , e.g. “ Is J.K. Rowling an author ? ” is afﬁrmed by reading “ J.K. Rowling wrote The Sorcerer ’s Stone ” using the graph edge WRITE ( x;y)BE.AUTHOR ( x ) .
Individually , each model answers only binary or unary qustions , not both .
By combining them all kinds of 5We test the MGraph on the Levy / Holt dataset of 18,407 questions for BB entailment ( Levy and Dagan , 2016 ; Holt , 2018 ) , and achieve similar results to Hosseini et al .
( 2018).questions can be answered using all available evidence .
At each precision level if any component model predicts true , the overall model does too .
In some test instances the entity typer may make an error , and so we fail to ﬁnd the question predicate in the typed subgraph .
Similarly to Hosseini et
al .
( 2018 ) , in these cases we back off , querying all subgraphs for the untyped predicate and averaging the entailment scores found .
We ﬁnd 5 % more unary questions and 18 % more binaries .
Similarity Models .
BERT and RoBERTa predicate embeddings ( Devlin et al . , 2019 ; Liu et al . , 2019 ) are used in an unsupervised manner to answer questions based on similarity to the evidence .
We encode the question into a representation vector , and each evidence proposition with the same arguments .
We compute the cosine similarity between the question and each evidence vector , adjusted to a scale of 0 to 1 : sim ( p;q ) = ( cos(p;q ) + 1)=2 .
To compute each vector encoding we construct a simple natural language sentence from the proposition using its predicate and arguments and encode it with the language model .
Our representation includes only the encoding for the predicate in the context of its arguments , but not the arguments themselves to make this a true test of predicate similarity .
We average all ﬁnal hidden - state vectors from the model corresponding to the predicate , excluding those of the arguments .
We test the basic BERT model and RoBERTa model , which has robustly pretrained on 160 GB of text ( 76 GB news ) .
PPDB .
Though supervised , PPDB 2.0 ( we use XXXL ) ( Pavlick et al . , 2015 ) is a useful comparison as it is a large , well - understood resource for phrasal entailment .
PPDB relations come from bilingual pivoting and are categorized using textbased features , which is very different from our argument - tracking method .
We view PPDB as a kind of Entailment Graph with 9 M predicate phrases ( vertices ) and 33 M “ Equivalence ” and “ ForwardEntailment ” edges .
We convert evidence and question propositions into a natural text format and extract a PPDB relation score from each evidence phrase to the question .
6 Question Answering Results
The models produce a gradation of judgement scores between 0 ( false ) and 1 ( true ) .
As in earlier work , we slide a classiﬁcation threshold over the score range to produce a precision - recall curve for each model .
Results are in Figure 3 ( left ) .
10765 Figure 3 : ( Left ) Overall performance on the QA task .
( Right ) performance on the ﬁltered task .
Note that BB , UU , and BU models may individually reach a max recall of 50 % because they answer only binary or unary questions .
Multivalent graph performance is shown incrementally .
The BB model can answer a portion of binary questions ; the UU model can answer more unary questions ; adding the BU model can answer still more unary questions using binary evidence .
We observe successful inference of our kill / die example and others .
“ Obama was elected to ofﬁce ” afﬁrms the question “ Was Obama a candidate ? ”
and “ Zach Randolph returned ” afﬁrms “ Did Zach Randolph arrive ? ”
Our test set is from multiple sources over the same time period .
The exact - match baseline shows the limitations of answering questions simply by collecting more data ; most questions require inference to answer .
The complete MGraph achieves ~3x this recall by drawing inferences .
Our model achieves higher precision than BERT and RoBERTa similarity models in the low recall range .
The similarity models perform well , achieving full recall by generalizing for rarer predicates .
We note that RoBERTa bests BERT due to extensive in - domain pretraining .
The BB model appears to struggle .
In fact 90.5 % of unary questions have a vertex in the graph , but only 64.1 % of binaries do .
The BB model frequently can not answer questions because the question predicate was n’t seen in training .
This difference is because binary predicates are more diverse so suffer more from sparsity : they are often multiword expressions and have a second , typed argument .
Indeed , most binary predicate research ( in symbolic methods ) focuses on only the top 50 % of recall in several datasets ( Berant et al . , 2010 , 2015 ; Levy and Dagan , 2016 ; Hosseini et al . , 2018 ) .
For an even comparison we create a ﬁltered question set .
From all questions we remove those without a vertex in the MGraph , then balance them as in § 5 , resulting in 20,519 questions ( 10,273 unary and 10,246 binary ) .
This ﬁltered test directly comparesUnary Questions Binary Questions Model @1451 @2000 @802 @2000 BERT 91.4 % 76.9 % 92.0 % 82.9 % RoBERTa 92.5 % 78.6 % 91.5 % 85.1 % PPDB 92.3 % — 81.8 % — MGraph UU 96.5 % 87.0 % — — BU 97.6 % 90.4 % — — BB — — 100.0 % 88.8 % 1245 Exact - Match 597 Exact - Match Table 3 : The ﬁltered test .
Models rank question / answer pairs by conﬁdence .
We show accuracy on the Kmost conﬁdent predictions , at two points .
PPDB does n’t answer enough questions to reach the @2000 cutoff , so we also compare at the smaller PPDB maximum .
the models , since both the entailment graphs and the similarity models have a chance to answer all the questions .
Results are shown in Figure 3 ( right ) , with a very different outcome .
Head - to - head , the MGraph offers substantially better precision across all recall levels .
At 50 % recall , the MGraph has 76 % precision with RoBERTa at 65 % .
Notably , on both tests , more unary questions are answered using both unary andbinary predicate evidence than just using unary evidence alone .
On the ﬁltered test , the BU model increases max recall from 54 % to 70 % .
Finally , we note PPDB ’s poor performance ( highest recall shown ) , only 1 % higher recall than the exact - match baseline despite having entries for 88 % of questions .
Though PPDB features many directional entailments , this sparsity of edges useful for the task is likely because bilingual pivoting excels at detecting near - paraphrases , not relations between distinct eventualities , e.g. it ca n’t learn “ getting elected ” entails “ being a candidate . ”
Advantageously , our method learns this open - domain knowledge by tracking entities across all the events
10766they participate in .
We show a breakdown of the ﬁltered test results in Table 3 .
Models do n’t answer all the questions , so following Lewis and Steedman ( 2013 ) who design a similar QA task , we evaluate models on the accuracy of their Kmost conﬁdent predictions .
7 Error Analysis We sample 300 false positives ( 100 for each model ) and report analyses in Table 4 .
In all models spurious entailments are the largest issue , and may occur due to normalization of predicates during learning , or incidental correlations in the data .
The UU and BU models also suffer during relation extraction ( parsing ) .
When we fail to parse a second argument for a predicate we assume it only has one and extract a malformed unary , which can interfere with question answering ( e.g. reporting verbs “ explain , ” “ announce , ” etc . which fail to parse with their quote ) .
We also ﬁnd relatively few poorly generated negatives , which are actually true given the text .
In these cases the model ﬁnds an entailment which the authors judge to be correct .
8 Conclusions The MDIH is shown as an effective theory of unsupervised , open - domain predicate entailment , which crosses valencies by respecting argument roles .
Our multivalent entailment graph ’s performance has been demonstrated on a question answering task requiring ﬁne - grained semantic understanding .
Our method is able to answer a broader variety of questions than earlier entailment graphs , aided by drawing on evidence across valencies .
We outperform baseline models including a strong similarity measure using unsupervised BERT and RoBERTa , while using far less training data .
This shows that directional entailment is more helpful for inference on such a task than non - directional similarity , even with robust , in - domain pretraining .
We also noted a complementarity between unsupervised methods .
Our symbolic graph method achieves high precision for learned predicates , while sub - symbolic neural models achieve high recall by generalizing to unseen predicates .
Future work may leverage our MDIH signal to train a directional neural classiﬁer and combine beneﬁts .
Acknowledgments This work was supported in part by ERC H2020 Advanced Fellowship GA 742137 SEMANTAX , Error Source False Positive Example Unary to Unary ( UU ) Judgements
Spurious Entailment ( 57%)The United States advances 
The United States falls Parsing ( 26 % )
Reuters reports Reuters notes Poor Negative ( actually true ) ( 17%)Productivity increases Productivity grows Binary to
Unary ( BU ) Judgements
Spurious Entailment ( 65%)New York Mets create through camerawork New York Mets beneﬁt Parsing ( 26 % )
John McCain spent part of 5 years John McCain drew Poor Negative ( actually true ) ( 9%)The Yankees overwhelm the Mariners the Yankees prevail Binary to Binary ( BB )
Judgements Spurious Entailment ( 53%)A soldier was killed in Iraq A soldier was murdered in Iraq Poor Negative ( actually true ) ( 32%)Proﬁts fall in the ﬁrst quarter 
Proﬁts decline in the ﬁrst quarter Parsing ( 17 % ) medal than United States  United States take the medal Table 4 : False positive analysis .
Models predict entailments from the text ( left ) to generated negatives ( right ) .
and an Edinburgh and Huawei Technologies Research Centre award .
References Jonathan Berant , Noga Alon , Ido Dagan , and Jacob Goldberger . 2015 .
Efﬁcient global learning of entailment graphs .
Computational Linguistics , 41(2):221 – 263 .
Jonathan Berant , Ido Dagan , and Jacob Goldberger . 2010 .
Global learning of focused entailment graphs .
InProceedings of the 48th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics , pages 1220–1229 , Uppsala , Sweden .
Association for Computational Linguistics .
Sander Bijl de Vroe , Liane Guillou , Miloš Stanojevic , Nick McKenna , and Mark Steedman .
2021 .
Modality and negation in event extraction .
In Proceedings of the 4th Workshop on Challenges and Applications of Automated Extraction of Socio - political Events from Text ( CASE 2021 ) , online .
Association for Computational Linguistics ( ACL ) .
Kurt Bollacker , Colin Evans , Praveen Paritosh , Tim Sturge , and Jamie Taylor . 2008 .
Freebase :
A collaboratively created graph database for structuring human knowledge .
In Proceedings of the 2008 ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data , SIGMOD ’ 08 , page 1247–1250 , New York , NY , USA . Association for Computing Machinery .
10767Christopher Clark , Kenton Lee , Ming - Wei Chang , Tom Kwiatkowski , Michael Collins , and Kristina Toutanova . 2019 .
BoolQ :
Exploring the surprising difﬁculty of natural yes / no questions .
In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics : Human Language Technologies , Volume 1 ( Long and Short Papers ) , pages 2924–2936 , Minneapolis , Minnesota .
Association for Computational Linguistics .
Ido Dagan , Oren Glickman , and Bernardo Magnini . 2006 .
The pascal recognising textual entailment challenge .
In Machine Learning Challenges .
Evaluating Predictive Uncertainty , Visual Object Classiﬁcation , and Recognising Tectual Entailment , pages 177–190 , Berlin , Heidelberg .
Springer Berlin Heidelberg .
Ido Dagan , Lillian Lee , and Fernando CN Pereira . 1999 .
Similarity - based models of word cooccurrence probabilities .
Machine learning , 34(1 - 3):43 – 69 .
Donald Davidson .
1967 .
The logical form of action sentences .
In Nicholas Rescher , editor , The Logic of Decision and Action .
University of Pittsburgh Press .
Wayne Davis .
2019 .
Implicature .
In Edward N. Zalta , editor , The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy , fall 2019 edition .
Metaphysics Research Lab , Stanford University .
Jacob Devlin , Ming - Wei Chang , Kenton Lee , and Kristina Toutanova . 2019 .
BERT : Pre - training of deep bidirectional transformers for language understanding .
In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics : Human Language Technologies , Volume 1 ( Long and Short Papers ) , pages 4171–4186 , Minneapolis , Minnesota .
Association for Computational Linguistics .
Christiane Fellbaum .
1998 .
WordNet :
An Electronic Lexical Database .
Bradford Books .
Jenny Rose Finkel , Trond Grenager , and Christopher Manning .
2005 .
Incorporating non - local information into information extraction systems by gibbs sampling .
In Proceedings of the 43rd Annual Meeting on Association for Computational Linguistics , ACL ’ 05 , page 363–370 , USA .
Association for Computational Linguistics .
Maayan Geffet and Ido Dagan .
2005 .
The distributional inclusion hypotheses and lexical entailment .
InProceedings of the 43rd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics ( ACL’05 ) , pages 107–114 , Ann Arbor , Michigan .
Association for Computational Linguistics .
Xavier Holt .
2018 .
Probabilistic models of relational implication .
Master ’s thesis , Macquarie University .
Mohammad Javad Hosseini .
2021 .
Unsupervised Learning of Relational Entailment Graphs from Text .
Ph.D. thesis , University of Edinburgh .
Mohammad Javad Hosseini , Nathanael Chambers , Siva Reddy , Xavier R. Holt , Shay B. Cohen , Mark Johnson , and Mark Steedman .
2018 .
Learning typed entailment graphs with global soft constraints .
Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics , 6:703–717 .
Mohammad Javad Hosseini , Shay B. Cohen , Mark Johnson , and Mark Steedman .
2019 .
Duality of link prediction and entailment graph induction .
In Proceedings of the 57th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics , pages 4736 – 4746 , Florence , Italy . Association for Computational Linguistics .
Dimitri Kartsaklis and Mehrnoosh Sadrzadeh .
2016 .
Distributional inclusion hypothesis for tensor - based composition .
In Proceedings of COLING 2016 , the 26th International Conference on Computational Linguistics : Technical Papers , pages 2849–2860 , Osaka , Japan .
The COLING 2016 Organizing Committee .
Omer Levy and Ido Dagan .
2016 .
Annotating relation inference in context via question answering .
In Proceedings of the 54th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics ( Volume 2 : Short Papers ) , pages 249–255 , Berlin , Germany .
Association for Computational Linguistics .
Mike Lewis and Mark Steedman .
2013 .
Combined distributional and logical semantics .
Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics , 1:179–192 .
Dekang Lin .
1998 .
Automatic retrieval and clustering of similar words .
In COLING 1998 Volume 2 : The 17th International Conference on Computational Linguistics .
Xiao Ling and Daniel S. Weld .
2012 .
Fine - grained entity recognition .
In Proceedings of the TwentySixth AAAI Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence , AAAI’12 , page 94–100 .
AAAI Press .
Yinhan Liu , Myle Ott , Naman Goyal , Jingfei Du , Mandar Joshi , Danqi Chen , Omer Levy , Mike Lewis , Luke Zettlemoyer , and Veselin Stoyanov .
2019 .
Roberta : A robustly optimized bert pretraining approach .
Claudia Maienborn .
2011 .
Event semantics , pages 802–829 .
Christopher D. Manning , Mihai Surdeanu , John Bauer , Jenny Finkel , Steven J. Bethard , and David McClosky .
2014 .
The Stanford CoreNLP natural language processing toolkit .
In Association for Computational Linguistics ( ACL ) System Demonstrations , pages 55–60 .
D.B. Nguyen , Johannes Hoffart , M. Theobald , and G. Weikum .
2014 .
Aida - light : High - throughput named - entity disambiguation .
volume 1184 .
10768Ellie Pavlick , Pushpendre Rastogi , Juri Ganitkevitch , Benjamin Van Durme , and Chris Callison - Burch . 2015 .
PPDB 2.0 : Better paraphrase ranking , ﬁnegrained entailment relations , word embeddings , and style classiﬁcation .
In Proceedings of the 53rd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics and the 7th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing ( Volume 2 : Short Papers ) , pages 425–430 , Beijing , China .
Association for Computational Linguistics .
F. Petroni , T. Rocktäschel , A. H. Miller , P. Lewis , A. Bakhtin , Y .
Wu , and S. Riedel . 2019 .
Language models as knowledge bases ?
In In : Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing ( EMNLP ) , 2019 .
Hoifung Poon and Pedro Domingos .
2009 .
Unsupervised semantic parsing .
In Proceedings of the 2009 conference on empirical methods in natural language processing , pages 1–10 .
Miloš Stanojevi ´ c and Mark Steedman .
2019 .
CCG parsing algorithm with incremental tree rotation .
In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics : Human Language Technologies , Volume 1 ( Long and Short Papers ) , pages 228–239 , Minneapolis , Minnesota .
Association for Computational Linguistics .
Mark Steedman .
2000 .
The Syntactic Process .
MIT Press , Cambridge , MA , USA .
Idan Szpektor and Ido Dagan .
2008 .
Learning entailment rules for unary templates .
In Proceedings of the 22nd International Conference on Computational Linguistics ( Coling 2008 ) , pages 849–856 , Manchester , UK .
Coling 2008 Organizing Committee .
Zeno Vendler .
1967 .
Facts and Events , pages 12–146 .
Cornell University Press , Ithaca .
Julie Weeds and David Weir .
2003 .
A general framework for distributional similarity .
In Proceedings of the 2003 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing , EMNLP ’ 03 , page 81–88 , USA .
Association for Computational Linguistics .
Congle Zhang and Daniel S. Weld .
2013 .
Harvesting parallel news streams to generate paraphrases of event relations .
In Proceedings of the 2013 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing , pages 1776–1786 , Seattle , Washington , USA . Association for Computational Linguistics .
