Proceedings of the 58th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics , pages 11–15 July 5–10 , 2020 .
c  2020 Association for Computational Linguistics https://doi.org/10.26615/978-954-452-056-4_00211Validating Label Consistency in NER Data Annotation Qingkai Zengy , Mengxia Yuy , Wenhao Yuy , Tianwen Jiangz , Meng Jiangy yUniversity of Notre Dame , Notre Dame , IN , USA zHarbin Institute of Technology , Harbin , Heilongjiang , China yfqzeng , myu2 , wyu1 , mjiang2 g@nd.edu zftwjiangg@ir.hit.edu.cn Abstract Data annotation plays a crucial role in ensuring your named entity recognition ( NER ) projects are trained with the correct information to learn from .
Producing the most accurate labels is a challenge due to the complexity involved with annotation .
Label inconsistency between multiple subsets of data annotation ( e.g. , training set and test set , or multiple training subsets ) is an indicator of label mistakes .
In this work , we present an empirical method to explore the relationship between label ( in-)consistency and NER model performance .
It can be used to validate the label consistency ( or catch the inconsistency ) in multiple sets of NER data annotation .
In experiments , our method identiﬁed the label inconsistency of test data in SCIERC and CoNLL03 datasets ( with 26.7 % and 5.4 % label mistakes ) .
It validated the consistency in the corrected version of both datasets .
1 Introduction Named entity recognition ( NER ) is one of the foundations of many downstream tasks such as relation extraction , event detection , and knowledge graph construction .
NER models require vast amounts of labeled data to learn and identify patterns that humans can not continuously .
It is really about getting accurate data to train the models .
When end - to - end neural models achieve excellent performance on NER in various domains ( Lample et al . , 2016 ; Liu et al . , 2018 ; Luan et al . , 2018 ; Zeng et al . , 2020 , 2021 ) , building useful and challenging NER benchmarks , such as CoNLL03 , WNUT16 , and SCIERC , contributes signiﬁcantly to the research community .
Data annotation plays a crucial role in building benchmarks and ensuring NLP models are trained with the correct information to learn from ( Luan et al . , 2018 ; Jiang et al . , 2020 ; Yu et al . , 2020 ) .
Producing the necessary annotation from any asset atscale is a challenge , mainly because of the complexity involved with annotation .
Getting the most accurate labels demands time and expertise .
Label mistakes can hardly be avoided , especially when the labeling process splits the data into multiple sets for distributed annotation .
The mistakes cause label inconsistency between subsets of annotated data ( e.g. , training set and test set or multiple training subsets ) .
For example , in the CoNLL03 dataset ( Sang and De Meulder , 2003 ) , a standard NER benchmark that has been cited over 2,300 times , label mistakes were found in 5.38 % of the test set ( Wang et al . , 2019 ) .
Note that the stateof - the - art results on CoNLL03 have achieved an F1 score of:93 .
So even if the label mistakes make up a tiny part , they can not be negligible when researchers are trying to improve the results further .
In the work of Wang et al . , ﬁve annotators were recruited to correct the label mistakes .
Compared to the original test set results , the corrected test set results are more accurate and stable .
However , two critical issues were not resolved in this process : i)How to identify label inconsistency between the subsets of annotated data ?
ii)How to validate that the label consistency was recovered by the correction ?
Another example is SCIERC ( Luan et al . , 2018 ) ( cited50 times ) which is a multi - task ( including NER ) benchmark in AI domain .
It has 1,861 sentences for training , 455 for dev , and 551 for test .
When we looked at the false predictions given bySCIIE which was a multi - task model released along with the SCIERC dataset , we found that as many as 147 ( 26.7 % of the test set ) sentences were not properly annotated .
( We also recruited ﬁve annotators and counted a mistake when all the annotators report it . )
Three examples are given in Table 1 : two of them have wrong entity types ; the third has a wrong span boundary .
As shown in the experiments section , after the correction , the NER performance becomes more accurate and stable .
12Table 1 : Three examples to compare original and corrected annotation in the test set of the SCIERC dataset .
If the annotation on the test set consistently followed the “ codebook ” that was used to annotate training data , the entities in the ﬁrst two examples would be labelled as “ Task ” ( not “ Method ” ) for sure .
Original Examples Corrected Examples Starting from a DP - based solution to the [ traveling salesman problem ] Method , we present a novel technique ...
Starting from a DP - based solution to the [ traveling salesman problem ] Task , we present a novel technique ...
FERRET utilizes a novel approach to [ Q / A ] Method known as predictive questioning which attempts to identify ... FERRET utilizes a novel approach to [ Q / A ] Task known as predictive questioning which attempts to identify ...
The goal of this work is the enrichment of [ human - machine interactions ] Taskin a natural language environment .
The goal of this work is the [ enrichment of human - machine interactions ] Taskin a natural language environment .
Figure 1 : Identifying label inconsistency of test set with training set : We sample three exclusive subsets ( of size x ) from the training set ( orange , green , and blue ) .
We use one subset as the new test set ( orange ) .
We apply the SCIIE NER model on the new test set .
We build three newtraining sets : i)“TrainTest ” ( blue - red ) , ii)“PureTrain ” ( green - blue ) , iii)“TestTrain ” ( red - blue ) .
Results on SCIERC show that the test set ( red ) is less predictive of training samples ( orange ) than the training set itself ( blue or green ) .
This was not observed on two other datasets .
Besides the signiﬁcant correction on the SCIERC dataset , our contributions in this work are as follows :
i)an empirical , visual method to identify the label inconsistency between subsets of annotated data ( see Figure 1 ) , ii)a method to validate the label consistency of corrected data annotation ( see Figure 2 ) .
Experiments show that they are effective on the CoNLL03 and SCIERC datasets .
2 Proposed Methods 2.1 A method to identify label inconsistency Suppose the labeling processes on two parts of annotated data were consistent .
They are likely to be equivalently predictive of each other .
In other words , if we train a model with a set of samples from either part Aor part Bto predict a different set from part A , the performance should be similar .
Take SCIERC as an example .
We were wondering whether the labels in the test set were consistent with those in the training set .
Our method to identify the inconsistency is presented in Figure 1 .
We sample three exclusive subsets ( of size x ) from the training set .
We set x= 550 according to the size of the original test set .
We use one of the subsets as the new test set .
Then we train the SCIIE NER model ( Luan et al . , 2018 ) to perform on the new test set .
We build three new training sets to feed into the model : “TrainTest ” : ﬁrst fed with one training subset and then the original test set ; “PureTrain ” : fed with two training subsets ; “TestTrain ” : ﬁrst fed with the original test set and then one of the training subsets .
Results show that “ TestTrain ” performed the worst at the early stage because the quality of the
13 Train : Test:(mistakes / corrected)!""#OriginalTrain : Test:“TestTrainMistake”“TestTrainCorrect”w“PureTrainMistake”“PureTrainCorrect”“MistakeTestTrain”“CorrectTestTrain”“MistakePureTrain”“CorrectPureTrain ” “ Mistake ” “ Correct”"w#!"w#!#"%!#"%!Figure 2 : Validating label consistency in corrected test set : We corrected zofy+zsentences in the test set .
We sampled three exclusive subsets of size x , y , andwfrom the training set .
We use the ﬁrst subset ( of size x ) as the newtest set .
We build four newtraining sets as shown in the ﬁgure and feed them into the SCIIE model ( at the top of the ﬁgure ) .
Results show that the label mistakes ( red parts of the curves on the left ) do hurt the performance no matter fed at the beginning or later ; and the corrected test set performs as well as the training set ( on the right ) .
original test set is not reliable .
In “ TrainTest ” the performance no longer improved when the model started being fed with the original test set .
“ PureTrain ” performed the best .
All the observations conclude that the original test set is less predictive of training samples than the training set itself .
It may be due to the issue of label inconsistency .
Moreover , we do not have such observations on two other datasets , WikiGold and WNUT16 .
2.2 A method to validate label consistency after correction After we corrected the label mistakes , how could we empirically validate the recovery of label consistency ?
Again , we use a subset of training data as the new test set .
We evaluate the predictability of the original wrong test subset , the corrected test subset , and the rest of the training set .
We expect to see that the wrong test subset delivers weaker performance and the other two sets make comparable good predictions .
Figure 2 illustrates this idea .
Take SCIERC as an example .
Suppose we corrected zofy+zsentences in the test set .
The original wrong test subset ( “ Mistake ” ) and the corrected test subset ( “ Correct ” ) are both of size z. Here z= 147 and the original good test subset y= 404
( “ Test ” ) .
We sampled three exclusive subsets of size x , y , andw= 804 from the training set ( “ Train ” ) .
We use the ﬁrst subset ( of size x ) as the new test set .
We build four new training sets and feed into the SCIIE model .
Each new training set hasy+w+z= 1;355sentences . “TestTrainMistake”/“TestTrainCorrect ” : the original good test subset , the third sampled training subset , and the original wrong test subset ( or the corrected test subset ) ; “PureTrainMistake”/“PureTrainCorrect ” : the second and third sampled training subsets and the original wrong test subset ( or the corrected test subset ) ; “MistakeTestTrain”/“CorrectTestTrain ” : the original wrong test subset ( or the corrected test subset ) , the original good test subset , and the third sampled training subset ; “MistakePureTrain”/“CorrectPureTrain ” : the original wrong test subset ( or the corrected test subset ) and the second and third sampled training subsets .
Results show that the label mistakes ( i.e. , original wrong test subset ) hurt the model performance
14 ( a ) Original with label mistakes ( b ) Corrected Figure 3 : Identifying label inconsistency and validating the consistency in the original & corrected CoNLL03 .
whenever being fed at the beginning or later .
The corrected test subset delivers comparable performance with the original good test subset and the training set .
This demonstrates the label consistency of the corrected test set with the training set .
3 Experiments 3.1 Results on SCIERC The visual results of the proposed methods have been presented in Section 2 .
Here we deploy ﬁve state - of - the - art NER models to investigate their performance on the corrected SCIERC dataset .
The NER models are BiLSTM - CRF ( Lample et al . , 2016 ) , LM - BiLSTM - CRF ( Liu et
al . , 2018 ) , singletask and multi - task SCIIE ( Luan et al . , 2018 ) , and
multi - task DyGIE ( Luan et al . , 2019 ) .
As shown in Table 2 , all NER models deliver better performance on the corrected SCIERC than the original dataset .
So the training set is more consistent with the ﬁxed test set than the original wrong test set .
In future work , we will exploreTable 2 : Five NER models perform consistently better on the corrected SCIERC than on the original dataset .
MethodCorrected SCIERC Original SCIERC P R F1 P R F1 BiLSTM - CRF 58.35 47.95 52.64 56.13 48.07 51.79 LM - BiLSTM - CRF 62.78 58.20 60.40 59.15 57.15 58.13 SCIIE - single 71.20 62.88 66.79 65.77 60.90 63.24 SCIIE - multi 72.66 63.22 67.61 67.66 61.72 64.56 DyGIE - multi 69.64 67.02 68.31 65.09 65.28 65.18 more baselines in the leaderboard .
3.2 Results on CoNLL03
Based on the correction contributed by ( Wang et al . , 2019 ) , we use the proposed method to justify label inconsistency though the label mistakes take “ only ” 5.38 % .
It also validates the label consistency after recovery .
Figure 3(a ) shows that starting with the wrong labels in the original test set makes the performance worse than starting with the training set or the good test subset .
After label correction , this issue is ﬁxed in Figure 3(b ) .
4 Related Work NER is typically cast as a sequence labeling problem and solved by models integrate LSTMs , CRF , and language models ( Lample et al . , 2016 ;
Liu et al . , 2018 ; Zeng et al . , 2019 , 2020 ) .
Another idea is to generate span candidates and predict their type .
Span - based models have been proposed with multitask learning strategies ( Luan et al . , 2018 , 2019 ) .
The multiple tasks include concept recognition , relation extraction , and co - reference resolution .
Researchers notice label mistakes in many NLP tasks ( Manning , 2011 ; Wang et
al . , 2019 ; Eskin , 2000 ; Kv ˘etoˇn and Oliva , 2002 )
.
For instance , it is reported that the bottleneck of the POS tagging task is the consistency of the annotation result ( Manning , 2011 ) .
People tried to detect label mistakes automatically and minimize the inﬂuence of noise in training .
The mistake re - weighting mechanism is effective in the NER task ( Wang et al . , 2019 ) .
We focus on visually evaluating the label consistency .
5 Conclusion We presented an empirical method to explore the relationship between label consistency and NER model performance .
It identiﬁed the label inconsistency of test data in SCIERC and CoNLL03 datasets ( with 26.7 % and 5.4 % label mistakes ) .
It validated the label consistency in
15multiple sets of NER data annotation on two benchmarks , CoNLL03 and SCIERC .
Acknowledgements This work is supported by National Science Foundation IIS-1849816 and CCF-1901059 .
References Eleazar Eskin .
2000 .
Detecting errors within a corpus using anomaly detection .
In Proceedings of the 1st North American chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics conference , pages 148–153 . Association for Computational Linguistics .
Tianwen Jiang , Qingkai Zeng , Tong Zhao , Bing Qin , Ting Liu , Nitesh V Chawla , and Meng Jiang .
2020 .
Biomedical knowledge graphs construction from conditional statements .
IEEE / ACM transactions on computational biology and bioinformatics , 18(3):823–835 .
Pavel Kv ˘etoˇn and Karel Oliva .
2002 .
( semi-)automatic detection of errors in PoS - tagged corpora .
In COLING 2002 : The 19th International Conference on Computational Linguistics .
Guillaume Lample , Miguel Ballesteros , Sandeep Subramanian , Kazuya Kawakami , and Chris Dyer . 2016 .
Neural architectures for named entity recognition .
arXiv preprint arXiv:1603.01360 .
Liyuan Liu , Jingbo Shang , Xiang Ren , Frank Fangzheng Xu , Huan Gui , Jian Peng , and Jiawei Han . 2018 .
Empower sequence labeling with task - aware neural language model .
InThirty - Second AAAI Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence .
Yi Luan , Luheng He , Mari Ostendorf , and Hannaneh Hajishirzi .
2018 .
Multi - task identiﬁcation of entities , relations , and coreference for scientiﬁc knowledge graph construction .
Proceedings of the 2018 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing ( EMNLP ) .
Yi Luan , Dave Wadden , Luheng He , Amy Shah , Mari Ostendorf , and Hannaneh Hajishirzi . 2019 .
A gen - eral framework for information extraction using dynamic span graphs .
Proceedings of the 2019 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics : Human Language Technologies .
Christopher D Manning . 2011 .
Part - of - speech tagging from 97 % to 100 % : is it time for some linguistics ?
InInternational conference on intelligent text processing and computational linguistics .
Erik F Sang and Fien De Meulder .
2003 .
Introduction to the conll-2003 shared task : Languageindependent named entity recognition .
arXiv preprint cs/0306050 .
Zihan Wang , Jingbo Shang , Liyuan Liu , Lihao Lu , Jiacheng Liu , and Jiawei Han . 2019 .
Crossweigh : Training named entity tagger from imperfect annotations .
In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing and the 9th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing ( EMNLP - IJCNLP ) .
Wenhao Yu , Mengxia Yu , Tong Zhao , and Meng Jiang .
2020 .
Identifying referential intention with heterogeneous contexts .
In Proceedings of The Web Conference 2020 .
Qingkai Zeng , Jinfeng Lin , Wenhao Yu , Jane ClelandHuang , and Meng Jiang . 2021 .
Enhancing taxonomy completion with concept generation via fusing relational representations .
In ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery & Data Mining ( KDD ) .
Qingkai Zeng , Mengxia Yu , Wenhao Yu , Jinjun Xiong , Yiyu Shi , and Meng Jiang .
2019 .
Faceted hierarchy : A new graph type to organize scientiﬁc concepts and a construction method .
In Proceedings of the Thirteenth Workshop on Graph - Based Methods for Natural Language Processing ( TextGraphs-13 ) .
Qingkai Zeng , Wenhao Yu , Mengxia Yu , Tianwen Jiang , Tim Weninger , and Meng Jiang .
2020 .
Tritrain : Automatic pre-ﬁne tuning between pretraining and ﬁne - tuning for sciner .
In Proceedings of the 2020 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing : Findings .
