Proceedings of the 16th International Workshop on Semantic Evaluation ( SemEval-2022 ) , pages 733 - 735 July 14 - 15 , 2022 © 2022 Association for Computational Linguistics IIT DHANBAD CODECHAMPS at SemEval-2022 Task 5 : MAMI Multimedia Automatic Misogyny Identification Shubham Kumar Barnwal Department of Computer Science and Engineering , Indian Institute of Technology ( Indian School of Mines ) , Dhanbad , India shubham.developer02@gmail.comRitesh Kumar Department of Computer Science and Engineering , National Institute of Technology Jamshedpur , India ritesh.cse@nitjsr.ac.inRajendra Pamula Department of Computer Science and Engineering , Indian Institute of Technology ( Indian School of Mines ) , Dhanbad , India rajendrapamula@gmail.com
Abstract With the growth of the internet , the use of social media based on images has drastically increased like Twitter , Instagram , etc .
In these social media , women have a very high contribution as of 75 % women use social media multiple times compared to men which is only 65 % of men uses social media multiple times a day .
However , with this much contribution , it also increases systematic inequality and discrimination offline is replicated in online spaces in the form of MEMEs .
A meme is essentially an image characterized by pictorial content with an overlaying text a posteriori introduced by humans , with the main goal of being funny and/or ironic .
Although most of them are created with the intent of making funny jokes , in a short time people started to use them as a form of hate and prejudice against women , landing to sexist and aggressive messages in online environments that subsequently amplify the sexual stereotyping and gender inequality of the offline world .
This leads to the need for automatic detection of Misogyny MEMEs .
Specifically , I described the model submitted for the shared task on Multimedia Automatic Misogyny Identification ( MAMI ( Fersini et al . , 2022 ) ) and my team name is IIT DHANBAD CODECHAMPS .
1 Introduction With the growth of the internet , social media becomes a crucial part of everyone ’s life .
As every coin has two side positive and negative , social media also comes with a number of problems .
The challenge of identifying misogyny ( Srivastava et al . , 2017 ) in different social media specially in forms of meme which contains both image and text is very complicated .
Misogyny meme highly affected the life of women ’s as its spread hate and prejudice behaviour against women ’s .
Social media like twitter , Instagram , etc have handled by their own ways .
However , detecting such memes is highly challenging .
Due to this challenge , it attracts theresearcher ’s attention .
According to one social media Instagram , more than 1 million users shared memes daily .
So , with this huge amount of data in social medias and internet it is impossible to detect every misogyny meme by man power .
So , we need machine learning , deep learning and artificial intelligence techniques to detect automatically misogyny memes in social media .
In this paper , we have explored various Machine Learning ( ML ) and Deep Learning ( DL ) algorithms for misogyny identification in shared task MAMI ( Fersini et al . , 2022 ) challenge and my team ’s name is IIT DHANBAD CODECHAMPS .
As per requirement of MAMI , I have submitted 4 runs for Subtask - A.
My best run in Subtask - A has achieved Macro - F1 score of 0.656 .
2 Related Works Many works related to automatic detection of misogyny , hate , sexism on social media and web have been proposed .
Abir Rahali ( Rahali et al . , 2021 ) proposed a approach for automatic misogyny detection in social media using attention based bidirectional LSTM .
Endang Wahyu Pamungkas ( Pamungkas et al . , 2020 ) proposed a method for Automatic Identification of Misogyny in English and Italian Tweets at EV ALITA 2018 with a Multilingual Hate Lexicon .
Mario Anzovino , Elisabetta Fersini ( Anzovino et al . , 2018 ) proposed a method for Automatic Identification and Classification of Misogynistic Language on Twitter .
The main contribution of this paper is two - fold : ( 1 ) a corpus of misogynous tweets , labelled from different perspective and ( 2 ) an exploratory investigation on NLP features and ML models for detecting and classifying misogynistic language .
Rachael Fulper ( Fulper et al . , 2014 ) proposed a relation between misogynistic language in twitter and sexual Violence .
In their paper they consider all 50 states in Washington DC.733
Lakes Goenaga , Aitziber ( Goenaga et al . , 2018 )
Atutxa proposed a Automatic misogyny identification using neural networks .
In this paper they focus on recurrent neural network ( RNN ) approach using a Bidirectional Long Short Term Memory ( Bi - LSTM ) .
3 Task and Dataset Description Here we have described the dataset and task provided by Multimedia Automatic Misogyny Identification ( MAMI ( Fersini et al . , 2022 ) ) challenge .
Multimedia Automatic Misogyny Identification ( MAMI ) task is divided into two sub task .
Sub - task A : a basic task about misogynous meme identification , where a meme should be categorized either as misogynous or not misogynous ( shown in Table 1 ) .
Sub - task B : an advanced task , where the type of misogyny should be recognized among potential overlapping categories such as stereotype , shaming , objectification and violence .
e.g. 1026.jpg 10101 POV : You ’re my wife made with mematic Figure 1 : 1026.jpg
Here , 1026.jpg represent meme file name .
Next column contains 5 numbers of zeros and ones .
First numbers represent wheather meme is misogynous .
Second numbers represent wheather meme is shaming .
Third numbers represent wheather meme is stereotype .Fourth numbers represent wheather meme is objectification .Fifth numbers represent wheather meme is violence .
Next col - umn represent Text Transcription of the meme .
4 Methodology 4.1 Text Preprocessing First , we removed all the punctuations , numbers , links and stop words .
We have used lemmatization for grouping together the different forms of a word into a single word .
NLTK wordnet ( Loper and Bird , 2002 ) is used for lemmatization .
4.2 Feature Extraction TfidfVectorizer ( Kumar and Subba , 2020 ) is used for converting the text into numerical features .
Pipeline1is used for doing TfidfVectorizer and classification in pipelined manner .
Tokenizer by keras library is used for LSTM and Bert .
For Logistic regression and SVM we have used TfidfVectorizer from scikit - learn library .
Models Proposed For Subtask - A , we have submitted 4 runs based on four different algorithms , namely- Logistic Regression ( Sammut and Webb , 2010 ) , SVM ( Noble , 2006 ) , LSTM ( Hochreiter and Schmidhuber , 1997 ) , Bert ( Devlin et al . , 2018 ) with different parameters like batch size , epochs , number of perceptron etc .
We have used the scikit - learn library for logistic regression based models and SVM ( support vector machines ) models .
Keras is used for LSTM and BERT .
We scored maximum F1 score 0.656 using BERT .
We have used the following value of parameters : 1.For TfidfVectorizer , we have used mindf=20 , maxfeatures=2000 and maxdf=0.6 .
2 . For LSTM and BERT , we have used batch size = 2 , epochs = 3 and number of layers = 2 . 5 Result and Discussions The results of Subtask - A are represented in terms of Macro - F1 ( shown in Table 2 ) .
The best score as Macro - F1 for Subtask - A we get is 0.656 .
Table 2 shows the score of our submissions based on different algorithms on MAMI challenge official ranking .
For Subtask - A BERT performs better than all other models with the parameters batch size = 2 , epochs = 3 , number of hidden layers = 2 and number of perceptron ’s is 128 in first layer and 64 in second layer .
1shorturl.at/eqrFW734
file_name misogynous Text transcription
1.jpg 0
Milk Milk.zip 10000.jpg 0
MAN SEEKING WOMAN Ignad 18 O 1026.jpg 1 POV : You ’re my wife made with mematic 10014.jpg 0
HOOKER MY DICK
VIRGIN ME Table 1 : Categories of MEMEs with Examples for Subtask - A Model F1 Score BERT 0.656 Logistic 0.631 SVM 0.584 LSTM 0.651 Table 2 : Result of Subtask - A based on different Models 6 Conclusions and
Future Work We have completed the task using various classification algorithms and evaluated the performance of different classification algorithms for Multimedia Automatic Misogyny Identification ( MAMI ) shared task .
Our overall score is 0.656 for subtask - A which were average as compared to other submissions obtained in the Multimedia Automatic Misogyny Identification ( MAMI ) shared task .
We look forward to experimenting with different advance algorithm or neural network models .
Also , till now our algorithms works only with text classification .
We are looking forward to work in text and image simultaneously for better accuracy and classification .
Also , fine tuning the parameters of the algorithm can help in improvement of the overall performance .
We shall be exploring these tasks in the coming days .
References Maria Anzovino , Elisabetta Fersini , and Paolo Rosso .
2018 .
Automatic identification and classification of misogynistic language on twitter .
In International Conference on Applications of Natural Language to Information Systems , pages 57–64 .
Springer .
Jacob Devlin , Ming - Wei Chang , Kenton Lee , and Kristina Toutanova . 2018 .
Bert : Pre - training of deep bidirectional transformers for language understanding.arXiv preprint arXiv:1810.04805 .
Elisabetta Fersini , Francesca Gasparini , Giulia Rizzi , Aurora Saibene , Berta Chulvi , Paolo Rosso , Alyssa Lees , and Jeffrey Sorensen . 2022 .
SemEval-2022 Task 5 : Multimedia automatic misogyny identification .
In Proceedings of the 16th International Work - shop on Semantic Evaluation ( SemEval-2022 ) .
Association for Computational Linguistics .
Rachael Fulper , Giovanni Luca Ciampaglia , Emilio Ferrara , Y Ahn , Alessandro Flammini , Filippo Menczer , Bryce Lewis , and Kehontas Rowe .
2014 .
Misogynistic language on twitter and sexual violence .
In Proceedings of the ACM Web Science Workshop on Computational Approaches to Social Modeling ( ChASM ) , pages 57–64 .
Iakes Goenaga , Aitziber Atutxa , Koldo Gojenola , Arantza Casillas , Arantza Díaz de Ilarraza , Nerea Ezeiza , Maite Oronoz , Alicia Pérez , and Olatz Perez de Viñaspre .
2018 .
Automatic misogyny identification using neural networks .
In IberEval@SEPLN .
Sepp Hochreiter and Jürgen Schmidhuber .
1997 .
Long short - term memory .
Neural computation , 9(8):1735 – 1780 .
Vipin Kumar and Basant Subba .
2020 .
A tfidfvectorizer and svm based sentiment analysis framework for text data corpus .
In 2020 National Conference on Communications ( NCC ) , pages 1–6 .
Edward Loper and Steven Bird .
2002 .
Nltk : The natural language toolkit .
arXiv preprint cs/0205028 .
William S Noble .
2006 .
What is a support vector machine ?
Nature biotechnology , 24(12):1565–1567 .
Endang Wahyu Pamungkas , Valerio Basile , and Viviana Patti . 2020 .
Misogyny detection in twitter : a multilingual and cross - domain study .
Information Processing & Management , 57(6):102360 .
Abir Rahali , Moulay A Akhloufi , Anne - Marie TherienDaniel , and Eloi Brassard - Gourdeau .
2021 .
Automatic misogyny detection in social media platforms using attention - based bidirectional - lstm .
pages 2706 – 2711 .
Claude Sammut and Geoffrey I. Webb , editors .
2010 .
Logistic Regression , pages 631–631 .
Springer US , Boston , MA .
Kalpana Srivastava , Suprakash Chaudhury , PS Bhat , and Samiksha Sahu . 2017 .
Misogyny , feminism , and sexual harassment .
Industrial psychiatry journal , 26(2):111.735
