Acquisition , Representation and Usage of Conceptual Hierarchies
Marius Pas¸ca Google Inc.
Mountain View , California 94043 mars@google.com
human - compiled resources of instances , concepts and resulting conceptual hierarchies ; methods for automatically extracting sets of instances within unlabeled or labeled concepts , where the concepts may be considered as a ﬂat set or organized hierarchically ; and applications of IsA relations in information retrieval .
2 Tutorial Outline
• Subsumption , inheritance , instantiation ; • Resources of IsA relations ; • Acquisition of IsA relations from text ; • Applications .
3 Instructor
Marius Pas¸ca is a research scientist at Google .
Current research interests include factual information extraction from unstructured text within documents and queries and its applications to Web search .
1 Tutorial Description
Through subsumption and instantiation , individual instances ( “ artiﬁcial intelligence ” , “ the spotted pig ” ) otherwise spanning a wide range of domains can be brought together and organized under conceptual hierarchies .
The hierarchies connect more speciﬁc concepts ( “ computer science subﬁelds ” , “ gastropubs ” ) to more general concepts ( “ academic disciplines ” , “ restaurants ” ) through IsA relations .
Explicit or implicit properties applicable to , and deﬁning , more general concepts are inherited by their more speciﬁc concepts , down to the instances connected to the lower parts of the hierarchies .
Subsumption represents a crisp , universally - applicable principle towards consistently representing IsA relations in any knowledge resource .
Yet knowledge resources often exhibit signiﬁcant differences in their scope , representation choices and intended usage , to cause signiﬁcant differences in their expected usage and impact on various tasks .
This tutorial examines the theoretical foundations of subsumption , and its practical embodiment through IsA relations compiled manually or extracted automatically .
It addresses IsA relations from their formal deﬁnition ; through practical choices made in their representation within the larger and more widely - used of the available knowledge resources ; to their automatic acquisition from document repositories , as opposed to their manual compilation by human contributors ; to their impact in text analysis and information retrieval .
As search engines move away from returning a set of links and closer to returning results that more directly answer queries , IsA relations play an increasingly important role towards a better understanding of documents and queries .
The tutorial teaches the audience about deﬁnitions , assumptions and practical choices related to modeling and representing IsA relations in existing ,
