Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing and the 9th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing , pages 5838–5845 , Hong Kong , China , November 3–7 , 2019 .
c  2019 Association for Computational Linguistics5838Higher - order Comparisons of Sentence Encoder Representations Mostafa AbdouyArtur
Kulmizev|Felix Hill}Daniel M. LowAnders Søgaardy yDepartment of Computer Science , University of Copenhagen |Department of Linguistics and Philology , Uppsala University } DeepMindProgram in Speech and Hearing Bioscience and Technology , Harvard Medical School - MIT Abstract Representational Similarity Analysis ( RSA ) is a technique developed by neuroscientists for comparing activity patterns of different measurement modalities ( e.g. , fMRI , electrophysiology , behavior ) .
As a framework , RSA has several advantages over existing approaches to interpretation of language encoders based on probing or diagnostic classiﬁcation : namely , it does not require large training samples , is not prone to overﬁtting , and it enables a more transparent comparison between the representational geometries of different models and modalities .
We demonstrate the utility of RSA by establishing a previously unknown correspondence between widely - employed pretrained language encoders and human processing difﬁculty via eye - tracking data , showcasing its potential in the interpretability toolbox for neural models .
1 Introduction Examining the parallels between human and machine learning is a natural way for us to better understand the former and track our progress in the latter .
The “ black box ” aspect of neural networks has recently inspired a large body of work related to interpretability , i.e. understanding of representations that such models learn .
In NLP , this push has been largely motivated by linguistic questions , such as : what linguistic properties are captured by neural networks ?
andto what extent do decisions made by neural models reﬂect established linguistic theories ?
Given the relative recency of such questions , much work in the domain so far has been focused on the context of models in isolation ( e.g. what does model Xlearn about linguistic phenomenon Y ? )
In order to more broadly understand models ’ representational tendencies , however , it is vital that such questions be formed not only with other models in mind , but also other rep - resentational methods and modalities ( e.g. behavioral data , fMRI measurements , etc . ) .
In context of the latter concern , the present - day interpretability toolkit has not yet been able to afford a practical way of reconciling this .
In this work , we employ Representational Similarity Analysis ( RSA ) as a simple method of interpreting neural models ’ representational spaces as they relate to other models and modalities .
In particular , we conduct an experiment wherein we investigate the correspondence between human processing difﬁculty ( as reﬂected by gaze ﬁxation measurements ) and the representations induced by popular pretrained language models .
In our experiments , we hypothesize that there exists an overlap between the sentences which are difﬁcult for humans to process and those for which per - layer encoder representations are least correlated .
Our intuition is that such sentences may exhibit factors such as low - frequency vocabulary , lexical ambiguity , and syntactic complexity ( e.g. multiple embedded clauses ) , etc . that are uncommon in both standard language and , relatedly , the corpora employed in training large - scale language models .
In the case of a human reader , encountering such a sentence may result in a number of processing delays , e.g. longer aggregate gaze duration .
In the case of a sentence encoder , an uncommon sentence may lead to a degradation of representations in the encoder ’s layers , wherein a lower layer might learn to encode vastly different information than a higher one .
Similarly , different models ’ representations may emphasize different aspects of these more complex sentences and therefore diverge from each other .
With this in mind , our hypothesis is that sentences which are difﬁcult for humans to process are likely to have divergent representations within models ’ internal layers and between different models ’ layers .
5839Understanding and analysing language encoders In recent years , some prominent efforts towards interpreting neural networks for NLP have included : developing suites that evaluate network representations through performance on downstream tasks ( Conneau et al . , 2017a ;
Wang et al . , 2018 ; McCann et al . , 2018 ) ; analyzing network predictions on carefully curated datasets ( Linzen et al . , 2016 ; Marvin and Linzen , 2018 ; Gulordava et al . , 2018 ; Loula et al . , 2018 ; Dasgupta et al . , 2018 ; Tenney et al . , 2018 ) ; and employing diagnostic classiﬁers to assess whether certain classes of information are encoded in a model ’s ( intermediate ) representations ( Adi et al . , 2016 ; Chrupała et al . , 2017 ; Hupkes et al . , 2017 ; Belinkov et al . , 2017 ) .
While these approaches provide valuable insights into how neural networks process a large variety of phenomena , they rely on decoding accuracy as a probe for encoded linguistic information .
If properly biased , this means that they can detect whether information is encoded in a representation or not .
However , they do not allow for a direct comparison of representational structure between models .
Consider a toy dataset of ﬁve sentences of interest and three encodings derived from quite different processing models ; a hidden state of a trained neural language model , a tf - idf weighted bag - of - words representation , and measurements of ﬁxation duration from an eyetracking device .
Probing methods do not allow us to quantify or visualise , for each of these encoding strategies , how the encoder ’s responses to the ﬁve sentences relate to each other .
Moreover , probing methods would not directly reveal whether the ﬁxations from the eye - tracking device aligned more closely with the tf - idf representation or the states of the neural language model .
In short , while probing classiﬁer methods can establish if phenomena are separable based on the provided representations , they do not tell us about the overall geometry of the representational spaces .
RSA , on the other hand , provides a basis for higher - order comparisons between spaces of representations , and a way to visualise and quantify the extent to which they are isomorphic .
Indeed , RSA has seen a modest introduction within interpretable NLP in recent years .
For example , Chrupała et al .
( 2017 ) employed RSA as a means of correlating encoder representations of speech , text , and images in a post - hoc analysis of amulti - task neural pipeline .
Similarly , Bouchacourt and Baroni ( 2018 ) used the framework to measure the similarity between input image embeddings and the representations of the same image by an agent in an language game setting .
More recently , Chrupała and Alishahi ( 2019 ) correlated activation patterns of sentence encoders with symbolic representations , such as syntax trees .
Lastly , similar to our work here , Abnar et al .
( 2019 ) proposed an extension to RSA that enables the comparison of a single model in the face of isolated , changing parameters , and employed this metric along with RSA to correlate NLP models ’ and human brains ’ respective representations of language .
We hope to position our work among this brief survey and further demonstrate the ﬂexibility of RSA across several levels of abstraction .
2 Representational Similarity Analysis RSA was proposed by Kriegeskorte et al .
( 2008 ) as a method of relating the different representational modalities employed in neuroscientiﬁc studies .
Due to the lack of correspondence between the activity patterns of disparate measurement modalities ( e.g. brain activity via fMRI , behavioural responses ) , RSA aims to abstract away from the activity patterns themselves and instead compute representational dissimilarity matrices ( RDMs ) , which characterize the information carried by a given representation method through dissimilarity structure .
Given a set of representational methods ( e.g. , pretrained encoders )
Mand a set of experimental conditions ( sentences ) N , we can construct RDMs for each method in M.
Each cell in an RDM corresponds to the dissimilarity between the activity patterns associated with pairs of experimental conditionsni;nj2N , say , a pair of sentences .
When ni = nj , the dissimilarity between an experimental condition and itself is intuitively 0 , thus making theNNRDM symmetric along a diagonal of zeros ( Kriegeskorte et al . , 2008 ) .
The RDMs of the different representational methods in Mcan then be directly compared in a Representational Similarity Matrix ( RSM ) .
This comparison of RDMs is known as second - order analysis , which is broadly based on the idea of asecond - order isomorphism ( Shepard and Chipman , 1970 ) .
In such an analysis , the principal point of comparison is the match between the dissimilarity structure of the different representa-
5840 Figure 1 : An example of ﬁrst- and second - order analyses , where N= # of experimental conditions , M= # of models , and H= # of activity patterns observed for a given model ( i.e. dimensionality ) .
The right - most side of the ﬁgure depicts a representational similairty matrix ( RSM ) of correlations between RDMs .
tional methods .
Intuitively , this can be expressed through the notion of distance between distances , and is thus related to Earth Mover ’s Distance ( Rubner et al . , 2000).1Figure 1 shows an illustration of the ﬁrst and second order analyses for pretrained language encoders .
Note that RSA is meaningfully different from , and complementary to , methods that employ saturating functions of representation distances ( e.g. decoding accuracy , mutual information ) , which suffer from ( a)a ceiling effect : being able to distinguish experimental phenomenon AfromB with with an accuracy of 100 % and experimental phenomenon CfromDwith an accuracy of 100 % does not mean that the distance between AandB is the same as that between CandD ; and ( b)discretization ( Nili et al . , 2014 ) .
We follow Kriegeskorte et al .
( 2008 ) in using the correlation distance of experimental condition pairs ni;nj2Nas a dissimilarity measure , where niis the mean of ni ’s elements,is the dot product , and kis thel2norm : corr(x ) = 1 (ni ni)(nj nj ) k(ni nik2k(nj njk2 .
Compared to other measures , correlation distance is preferable as it normalizes both the mean and variance of activity patterns over experimental conditions .
Other popular measures include the Euclidean distance and the Malahanobis distance ( Kriegeskorte et al . , 2006 ) .
3 Fixation Duration and Encoder Disagreement Gaze ﬁxation patterns have been shown to strongly reﬂect the online cognitive processing demands of 1More precisely , our measure of dissimilarity between experimental conditions is analogous to ground distance and dissimilarity between RDMs to earth mover ’s distance.human readers ( Raney et al . , 2014 ; Ashby et al . , 2005 ) and to be dependent upon a number of linguistic factors ( Van Gompel , 2007 ) .
Speciﬁcally , it has been demonstrated that word frequency , syntactic complexity , and lexical ambiguity play a strong part in determining which sentences are difﬁcult for humans to process ( Rayner and Duffy , 1986 ;
Duffy et al . , 1988 ; Levy , 2008 ) .
Using the RSA framework , we aim to explore how gaze ﬁxation patterns and the linguistic factors associated with sentence processing difﬁculty relate to the representational spaces of popular language encoders .
Namely , we hypothesize that , for a given sentence , disagreement between hidden layers corresponds to processing difﬁculty .
Because layer disagreement for a sentence measures the extent to which two layers ( e.g. within BERT ) disagree with each other about the pairwise similarity of the sentence ( with other sentences in the corpus ) , a sentence with high layer disagreement will have unstable similarity relationships to other sentences in the corpus .
This indicates that it has a degraded encoder representation .
Going further , we also hypothesize that models ’ representations of said sentences may be confounded , in part , by factors that are known to inﬂuence humans .
Eye - tracking data For our experiments
, we make use of the Dundee eye - tracking corpus ( Kennedy et al . , 2003 ) , the English part of which consists of eye - movement data recorded as 10 native participants read 2,368 sentences from 20 newspaper articles .
We consider the following ﬁxation features : T OTAL FIXATION DURATION and FIRST PASS DURATION .
For each of the features , we ﬁrst take the average of the measurements recorded for all 10 participants per word , then ob-
5841tain sentence - level annotations by summing the measurements of all words in a sentence and dividing by its length .
The result of this is two vectorsVtotfix andVfirstpass of length 2;368 , where each cell in the vector corresponds to a sentence ’s average total ﬁxation and average ﬁrst pass duration , respectively .
Syntactic complexity , word frequency , and lexical ambiguity We also consider the three following linguistic features which affect processing difﬁculty .
For each of the following the result is also a vector of length 2;368where each cell corresponds to a sentence : a.the average word log frequency per sentence extracted from the British National Corpus ( Leech , 1992 ) , VlogFreq : .
b.the average number of senses per word per sentence extracted from WordNet ( Miller , 1995),VwordSense .
c. Yngve scores , a standard measure of syntactic complexity based on cognitive load ( Yngve , 1960 ) , VY ngve .
Pretrained encoders We conduct our analysis on pretrained BERT - large ( Devlin et al . , 2018 ) and ELMo ( Peters et al . , 2018 ) , two widely employed contextual sentence encoders .
To obtain a representation of a sentence from a given layer L , we perform mean - pooling over the time - steps which correspond to the words of a sentence , obtaining a vector representation of the sentence .
Meanpooling is a common approach for obtaining vector representations of sentences for downstream tasks ( Peters et al . , 2018 ; Conneau et al . , 2017b ) .
We refer to ELMo ’s lowest layer as E1 , BERT ’s 11th layer as B11 , etc .
RDMs We construct an RDM ( see § 2 ) for each contextual encoder ’s layers .
Each RDM is a 2;368 2;368matrix which represents the dissimilarity structure of the layer , ( i.e. , each row vector in the matrix contains the dissimilarity of a given sentence to every other sentence ) .
We then compute the correlations between the two different RDMs .
For our evaluation of how well the representational geometry of a layer correlates to another , we employ Kendall ’s  Aas suggested in Nili et
al . ( 2014 ) , computing the pairwise correlation for each two corresponding rows in two RDMs .
This second - order analysis gives us a pairwise relational similarity vector VCorr Li Ljoflength 2;368 , which has the correlations between two layersLiandLj ’s RDMs for each of the sentences .
Third - order analysis The ﬁnal part of our analysis involves computing correlations ( Spearman ’s  ) offVCorr Li Lj;VlogFreq;VY ngve;VwordSenseg with each of Vtotfix andVfirstpass .
The results from this are shown in Table 1 .
The top section of the table shows correlations when LiandLjare the three ﬁnal adjacent layers in BERT and ELMo .
The middle section shows the results for top three BERT layer pairs LiandLjwhich maximize the correlation scores .
The ﬁnal section shows correlation with the linguistic features .
Finally , Figure 2 shows Spearman ’s correlations between VCorr Li Ljand each ofVtotfix , andVY ngve for all combinations of the 24 BERT layers .
4 Discussion Our results show highly signiﬁcant negative correlations between VCorr Li Ljand sentence gaze ﬁxation times .
These ﬁndings conﬁrm the hypothesis that the sentences that are most challenging for humans to process , are the sentences ( a)the layers of BERT disagree most on among themselves ; and ( b)that ELMo and BERT disagree most on , indicating that there may be common factors which affect human processing difﬁculty and result in disagreement between layers .
By Layer disagreement we refer to the expression 1 VCorr Li Lj .
It is important to note that these encoders are trained with a language modelling objective , unlike models where reading behaviour is explicitly modelled ( Hahn and Keller , 2016 ) or predicted ( Matthies and Søgaard , 2013 ) .
Indeed , the similarities here emerge naturally as a function of the task being performed .
This can be seen as analogous to the case of similarities observed between neural networks trained to perform object recognition and spatio - temporal cortical dynamics ( Cichy et al . , 2016 ) .
Syntactic complexity Figure 2 shows that , for all combinations of BERT layers , total ﬁxation time and Yngve scores have strong negative and positive correlations ( respectively ) with layer disagreement .
Furthermore , we observe that disagreement between middle layers seems to show the strongest correlation with Yngve scores .
To conﬁrm this , we split the correlations into four groups : “ low ” ( i;j2[1;8 ] ) , “ middle ” ( i;j2
5842 Figure 2 : RSMs showing ( Spearman ’s  ) correlation between disagreement among layers iandj(VCorr Li Lj ) andVtotfix ( left )
andVY ngve ( Right ) .
BERT layers are denoted with numbers from 1 ( topmost ) to 24 ( lowest ) .
Layer Disagreement Total Fixation First Pass Duration E1 - B22 -0.46 -0.46 E2 - B23 -0.66 -0.67 E3 - B24 -0.22 -0.23 B11 - B12 -0.88 -0.87 B12 - B13 -0.87
-0.85 B10 - B21 -0.87 -0.86 Linguistic Features Log Freq .
-0.20 -0.19 Avg .
Senses per Word -0.007 * -0.004 * Yngve Score 0.66 0.66 Table 1 : Spearman ’s betweenVCorr Li Lj , VlogFreq : , VwordSense , VY ngve and each ofVtotfix andVfirstpass .
All correlations signiﬁcant with p<0:0001 after Bonferroni correction unless marked with * .
[ 9;16 ] ) , “ high ” ( i;j2[17;24 ] ) , and “ out ” ( ji  jj>7 ) , with the latter representing out - ofgroup correlations ( e.g. Corr L1 L24 ) .
To account for correlations between disagreeing adjacent layers ( e.g.ji jj= 1 ) and Yngve scores being higher ( as a possible confounding factor ) , we also distinguish layers as either “ adjacent ” or “ non - adjacent ” .
Considering these two factors as three- and two - leveled independent variables respectively , we conduct a two - way analysis of variance .
The analysis reveals that the effect of group is signiﬁcant at F(3;275 ) = 78:47;p < 0:0001 , with “ low ” ( = 0.65,= 0.08 ) , “ middle ” ( = 0.84,= 0.03 ) , “ high ” ( = 0.80,= 0.05 ) , and “ out ” ( = 0.80,= 0.05 ) .
Neither the effect of adjacency nor its interaction with group proved to be signiﬁcant .
This can be seen as ( modest ) support for the ﬁndings of previous work ( Blevins et al . , 2018 ; Tenney et al . , 2019 ): namely , that the intermediate layers of neural language models encode themost syntax , and are therefore possibly more sensitive towards syntactic complexity .
A very similar pattern is observed for total ﬁxation time .
When considered together with the correlation between VY ngve and ﬁxation times , this indicates a tripartite afﬁnity between layer disagreement , syntactic complexity , and ﬁxation .
Lexical Ambiguity and Word Frequency
Finally , we observe that VlogFreq : has a moderate correlation with both ﬁxation time and layer disagreement and that VwordSense is nearly uncorrelated to both .
Detailed plots of the latter can be found in Appendix A. 5 Conclusion We presented a framework for analyzing neural network representations ( RSA ) that allowed us to relate human sentence processing data with language encoder representations .
In experiments conducted on two widely used encoders , our ﬁndings show that sentences which are difﬁcult for humans to process have more divergent representations both intra - encoder and between different encoders .
Furthermore , we lend modest support to the intuition that a model ’s middle layers encode comparatively more syntax .
Our framework offers insight that is complimentary to decoding or probing approaches , and is particularly useful to compare representations from across modalities .
Acknowledgements We would like to thank Vinit Ravishankar , Matt Lamm , and the anonymous reviewers for their helpful comments .
Mostafa Abdou and Anders Søgaard are supported by a Google Focused Research Award and a Facebook Research Award .
5843References Abnar , S. , Beinborn , L. , Choenni , R. , and Zuidema , W. ( 2019 ) .
Blackbox meets blackbox :
Representational similarity & stability analysis of neural language models and brains .
In Proceedings of the 2019 ACL Workshop BlackboxNLP : Analyzing and Interpreting Neural Networks for NLP , pages 191 – 203 , Florence , Italy .
Association for Computational Linguistics .
Adi , Y . , Kermany , E. , Belinkov , Y . , Lavi , O. , and Goldberg , Y .
( 2016 ) .
Fine - grained analysis of sentence embeddings using auxiliary prediction tasks .
arXiv preprint arXiv:1608.04207 .
Ashby , J. , Rayner , K. , and Clifton , C. ( 2005 ) .
Eye movements of highly skilled and average readers : Differential effects of frequency and predictability .
The Quarterly Journal of Experimental Psychology Section A , 58(6):1065–1086 .
Belinkov , Y . , M ` arquez , L. , Sajjad , H. , Durrani , N. , Dalvi , F. , and Glass , J. ( 2017 ) .
Evaluating layers of representation in neural machine translation on partof - speech and semantic tagging tasks .
In Proceedings of the Eighth International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing ( Volume 1 : Long Papers ) , volume 1 , pages 1–10 .
Blevins , T. , Levy , O. , and Zettlemoyer , L. ( 2018 ) .
Deep rnns encode soft hierarchical syntax .
arXiv preprint arXiv:1805.04218 .
Bouchacourt , D. and Baroni , M. ( 2018 ) .
How agents see things : On visual representations in an emergent language game .
In Proceedings of the 2018 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing , pages 981–985 , Brussels , Belgium . Association for Computational Linguistics .
Chrupała , G. and Alishahi , A. ( 2019 ) .
Correlating neural and symbolic representations of language .
arXiv preprint arXiv:1905.06401 .
Chrupała , G. , Gelderloos , L. , and Alishahi , A. ( 2017 ) .
Representations of language in a model of visually grounded speech signal .
arXiv preprint arXiv:1702.01991 .
Cichy , R. M. , Khosla , A. , Pantazis , D. , Torralba , A. , and Oliva , A. ( 2016 ) .
Comparison of deep neural networks to spatio - temporal cortical dynamics of human visual object recognition reveals hierarchical correspondence .
Scientiﬁc reports , 6:27755 .
Conneau , A. , Kiela , D. , Schwenk , H. , Barrault , L. , and Bordes , A. ( 2017a ) .
Supervised learning of universal sentence representations from natural language inference data .
CoRR , abs/1705.02364 .
Conneau , A. , Kiela , D. , Schwenk , H. , Barrault , L. , and Bordes , A. ( 2017b ) .
Supervised learning of universal sentence representations from natural language inference data .
arXiv preprint arXiv:1705.02364 .Dasgupta , I. , Guo , D. , Stuhlm ¨uller , A. , Gershman , S. J. , and Goodman , N. D. ( 2018 ) .
Evaluating compositionality in sentence embeddings .
arXiv preprint arXiv:1802.04302 .
Devlin , J. , Chang , M.-W. , Lee , K. , and Toutanova , K. ( 2018 ) .
Bert : Pre - training of deep bidirectional transformers for language understanding .
arXiv preprint arXiv:1810.04805 .
Duffy , S. A. , Morris , R. K. , and Rayner , K. ( 1988 ) .
Lexical ambiguity and ﬁxation times in reading .
Journal of memory and language , 27(4):429–446 .
Gulordava , K. , Bojanowski , P. , Grave , E. , Linzen , T. , and Baroni , M. ( 2018 ) .
Colorless green recurrent networks dream hierarchically .
arXiv preprint arXiv:1803.11138 .
Hahn , M. and Keller , F. ( 2016 ) .
Modeling human reading with neural attention .
arXiv preprint arXiv:1608.05604 .
Hupkes , D. , Veldhoen , S. , and Zuidema , W. ( 2017 ) .
Visualisation and’diagnostic classiﬁers ’ reveal how recurrent and recursive neural networks process hierarchical structure .
arXiv preprint arXiv:1711.10203 .
Kennedy , A. , Hill , R. , and Pynte , J. ( 2003 ) .
The dundee corpus .
In Proceedings of the 12th European conference on eye movement .
Kriegeskorte , N. , Goebel , R. , and Bandettini , P. ( 2006 ) .
Information - based functional brain mapping .
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences , 103(10):3863–3868 .
Kriegeskorte , N. , Mur , M. , and Bandettini , P. A. ( 2008 ) .
Representational similarity analysisconnecting the branches of systems neuroscience .
Frontiers in systems neuroscience , 2:4 .
Leech , G. N. ( 1992 ) .
100 million words of english : the british national corpus ( bnc ) .
Levy , R. ( 2008 ) .
Expectation - based syntactic comprehension .
Cognition , 106(3):1126–1177 . Linzen , T. , Dupoux , E. , and Goldberg , Y .
( 2016 ) .
Assessing the ability of lstms to learn syntax - sensitive dependencies .
arXiv preprint arXiv:1611.01368 .
Loula , J. , Baroni , M. , and Lake , B. M. ( 2018 ) .
Rearranging the familiar : Testing compositional generalization in recurrent networks .
arXiv preprint arXiv:1807.07545 .
Marvin , R. and Linzen , T. ( 2018 ) .
Targeted syntactic evaluation of language models .
arXiv preprint arXiv:1808.09031 .
Matthies , F. and Søgaard , A. ( 2013 ) .
With blinkers on : Robust prediction of eye movements across readers .
InProceedings of the 2013 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing , pages 803–807 .
5844McCann , B. , Keskar , N. S. , Xiong , C. , and Socher , R. ( 2018 ) .
The natural language decathlon : Multitask learning as question answering .
arXiv preprint arXiv:1806.08730 .
Miller , G. A. ( 1995 ) .
Wordnet : a lexical database for english .
Communications of the ACM , 38(11):39 – 41 .
Nili , H. , Wingﬁeld , C. , Walther , A. , Su , L. , MarslenWilson , W. , and Kriegeskorte , N. ( 2014 ) .
A toolbox for representational similarity analysis .
PLoS computational biology , 10(4):e1003553 .
Peters , M. E. , Neumann , M. , Iyyer , M. , Gardner , M. , Clark , C. , Lee , K. , and Zettlemoyer , L. ( 2018 ) .
Deep contextualized word representations .
arXiv preprint arXiv:1802.05365 .
Raney , G. E. , Campbell , S. J. , and Bovee , J. C. ( 2014 ) .
Using eye movements to evaluate the cognitive processes involved in text comprehension .
Journal of visualized experiments : JoVE , ( 83 ) .
Rayner , K. and Duffy , S. A. ( 1986 ) .
Lexical complexity and ﬁxation times in reading : Effects of word frequency , verb complexity , and lexical ambiguity .
Memory & cognition , 14(3):191–201 .
Rubner , Y . , Tomasi , C. , and Guibas , L. ( 2000 ) .
The earth mover ’s distance as a metric for image retrieval .
In IJCV .
Shepard , R. N. and Chipman , S. ( 1970 ) .
Second - order isomorphism of internal representations : Shapes of states .
Cognitive psychology , 1(1):1–17 .
Tenney , I. , Das , D. , and Pavlick , E. ( 2019 ) .
Bert rediscovers the classical nlp pipeline .
arXiv preprint arXiv:1905.05950 .
Tenney , I. , Xia , P. , Chen , B. , Wang , A. , Poliak , A. , McCoy , R. T. , Kim , N. , Van Durme , B. , Bowman , S. , Das , D. , et al . ( 2018 ) .
What do you learn from context ?
probing for sentence structure in contextualized word representations .
Van Gompel , R. P. ( 2007 ) .
Eye movements : A window on mind and brain .
Elsevier .
Wang , A. , Singh , A. , Michael , J. , Hill , F. , Levy , O. , and Bowman , S. R. ( 2018 ) .
Glue : A multi - task benchmark and analysis platform for natural language understanding .
arXiv preprint arXiv:1804.07461 .
Yngve , V .
H. ( 1960 ) .
A model and an hypothesis for language structure .
Proceedings of the American philosophical society , 104(5):444–466 .
A Correlation Heatmaps
5845 Figure 3 : RSM heatmaps showing ( Spearman ’s  ) correlation between disagreement among layers iandj ( VCorr Li Lj ) and ( a)Vfirstpass ( top ) , ( b)VwordSense ( middle ) and , ( c)VlogFreq ( bottom ) .
