Proceedings of the 5th Workshop on BioNLP Open Shared Tasks , pages 150–157 Hong Kong , China , November 4 , 2019 .
c  2019 Association for Computational Linguistics150BOUN - ISIK Participation : An Unsupervised Approach for the Named Entity Normalization and Relation Extraction of Bacteria Biotopes
˙Ilknur Karadeniz Is ¸ık University ilknur.karadeniz @isikun.edu.tr¨Omer Faruk Tuna Is ¸ık University 218DCS8074 @isik.edu.trArzucan ¨Ozg¨ur
Bo˘gazic ¸i University arzucan.ozgur @boun.edu.tr
Abstract This paper presents our participation at the Bacteria Biotope Task of the BioNLP Shared Task 2019 .
Our participation includes two systems for the two subtasks of the Bacteria Biotope Task : the normalization of entities ( BB - norm ) and the identiﬁcation of the relations between the entities given a biomedical text ( BB - rel ) .
For the normalization of entities , we utilized word embeddings and syntactic re - ranking .
For the relation extraction task , pre - deﬁned rules are used .
Although both approaches are unsupervised , in the sense that they do not need any labeled data , they achieved promising results .
Especially , for the BB - norm task , the results have shown that the proposed method performs as good as deep learning based methods , which require labeled data .
1 Introduction The amount of electronic resources in the biomedical domain and its rapid growth are major challenges for the scientists who make research in this domain .
Text mining methods which aim to automatically extract useful information from the text of these electronic resources provide convenience to the researchers .
A number of shared tasks , including the BioNLP Shared Tasks , have been conducted with the goal of developing biomedical text mining methods .
In 2011 , the Bacteria Biotope Task has been conducted for the ﬁrst time as a part of the BioNLP Shared Task targeting the extraction of useful information regarding bacteria and their habitats ( Bossy et al . , 2011 ) .
Since then , the participant teams of the following shared task series developed various solutions for the problem of bacteria biotopes ( Bossy et al . , 2015 ; Deleger et al . , 2016 ) .
The Bacteria Biotope Task of the BioNLP Shared Task 2019 ( Bossy et al . , 2019 ) is the ﬁnal version of the tasks that have been conducteduntil now readdressing the problem of extraction of the information regarding the bacteria biotopes .
This year ’s task has presented the opportunity to the participants to develop solutions for three subproblems : normalization ( BB - norm ) , relation extraction ( BB - rel ) , and knowledge base extraction ( BB - kb ) .
For the BB - norm task of the Bacteria Biotope Task of the BioNLP Shared Task 2019 , the participants are expected to develop systems to link the named entities ( Microorganism , Habitat , and Phenotype ) in a given text through a given ontology , when the entities are given with their boundaries .
For instance , the sample sentence “ Atypical mycobacteria causing non - pulmonary disease in Queensland . ” consists of the following mentions : “ mycobacteria ” microorganism mention , “ causing non - pulmonary disease ” phenotype mention , and “ pulmonary ” habitat mention , which should be normalized to the “ Mycobacteria ” term in the NCBI taxonomy , and “ human pathogen ” and“lung ” terms in the Onto - Biotope ontology , respectively .
For the BB - rel task of the Bacteria Biotopes Task of the BioNLP Shared Task 2019 , the participants are required to extract the relations between the entities when the entities are given .
There are two types of relations : Lives inrelation , which indicates a localization relation between a Microorganism entity and a Habitat / Geographical entity , and Exhibits relation , which indicates a property relation between a Phenotype entity and a Microorganism entity .
For instance , the sample sentence above indicates two relations : a Lives inrelation between the “ Mycobacteria ” Microorganism entity and the “ Queensland ” Geographical entity , and an Exhibits relation between the “ Mycobacteria ” Microorganism entity and the “ causing nonpulmonary disease ” Phenotype entity .
We participated at the Bacteria Biotope Task in the BioNLP Shared Task 2019 with our system ( named as the BOUN - ISIK system ) and ob-
151tained promising results in the ofﬁcial evaluation .
This paper presents our participating system for two sub - tasks : one for the BB - norm ( Entity Normalization ) sub - task and one for the BB - rel ( Relation Extraction ) sub - task .
For the entity normalization sub - task , we utilized word embeddings and syntactic re - ranking to normalize the entities .
On the other hand , for the relation extraction sub - task , we proposed a rule - based method .
Although both systems are unsupervised , they achieved promising results .
For the BB - norm sub - task , the ofﬁcial results of our system achieved state - of - the - art results on the BioNLP Shared Task 2019 Bacteria Biotope task test data set .
The results have shown that our unsupervised approach , which does not require labeled data , performs as good as the deep learning based methods , which require labeled data .
1.1 Related Work 1.1.1 Named Entity Normalization Among the previous series ( 2011 , 2013 , 2016 ) of the BioNLP Shared Task , the Bacteria Biotope Task in 2013 is the ﬁrst shared task that addressed the problem of normalization of the entities in the bacteria biotopes domain .
In 2013 , the participant teams proposed rule - based methods and similarity - based methods .
According to the ofﬁcial results of the Bacteria Biotope Task of 2013 , for the habitat mention normalization , the best precision was obtained by the BOUN system , which utilized syntactic rules and shallow linguistic knowledge ( Karadeniz and Ozg ¨ur , 2013 ; Karadeniz and ¨Ozg¨ur , 2015 ) .
In the following series of the Bacteria Biotopes task , the habitat mention normalization sub - task continued to attract the attention of the researchers .
In the Bacteria Biotope task of the BioNLP Shared Task 2016 , the best precision for the habitat normalization task was obtained by the BOUN system , which utilized both approximate string matching and cosine similarity of word - vectors weighted with Term FrequencyInverse Document Frequency ( TF - IDF ) ( Tiftikci et al . , 2016 ) .
After the Shared Tasks , the researchers continued to search for a solution for the problem of Bacteria Biotopes normalization ( Ferr ´ e et al . , 2017 ; Mehryary et al . , 2017 ; Karadeniz and ¨Ozg¨ur , 2019 ) .
Although promising results have been obtained by these approaches , the results showed thatthere is still room for improvement for the normalization task of bacteria biotopes .
Besides the bacteria biotopes , there exist a signiﬁcant amount of prior work on biomedical named entity normalization for different types of biomedical entities including genes / proteins ( Morgan et al . , 2008 ; Hakenberg et al . , 2008 ; Wermter et al . , 2009 ; Lu et
al . , 2011 ; Wei and Kao , 2011 ) and diseases ( Leaman et al . , 2013 ; Li et al . , 2017 ) .
However , the need for manually annotated training data makes the adaptation of such methods to new entities difﬁcult .
1.1.2 Relation Extraction Several approaches , which consider the extraction of relations between various biomedical entities such as protein / protein ( Giuliano et al . , 2006 ; Airola et al . , 2008 ; Choi , 2018 ) , drug / drug ( Segura - Bedmar et al . , 2011 ; Kim et al . , 2015 ) , and gene / disease ( Bravo et al . , 2015 ) from biomedical text , have been presented in the literature .
Relation extraction in the bacteria biotopes domain has also attracted considerable attention owing to the BioNLP Bacteria Biotope Shared Tasks .
Previous work in the bacteria biotopes domain consists of the extraction of relations between bacteria entities and habitat entities ( Localization Relation Extraction ) and of relations between two habitat entities ( Part Of Relation Extraction ) .
The participants of the BioNLP Shared Task 2011 , which is the ﬁrst shared task that addressed the relation extraction task of bacteria biotopes , utilized both machine learning and rule - based approaches for detecting the Localization and Part - of relations among bacteria and habitats ( Bossy et al . , 2011 ) .
Sub - task 2 of the Bacteria Biotope ( BB ) Task in the BioNLP Shared Task 2013 also gave another opportunity to scientists to address the task of extracting the Localization and Part Of relations in the bacteria biotopes domain .
For this subtask , the best F - score ( 42 % ) was obtained by the TEES 2.1 system ( Bj ¨orne and Salakoski , 2013 ) , which used support vector machine classiﬁcation .
After the shared task , a new sentence - level cooccurrence approach with an anaphora resolution component in order to handle relations that span multiple sentences has been developed in ( Karadeniz and ¨Ozg¨ur , 2015 ) , which resulted in an improved F - score performance of 53 % on Sub - task 2 .
In the BioNLP Shared Task 2016 , the VERSE
152team ( Lever and Jones , 2016 ) achieved the best F - score , which is 56 % , on the relation extraction sub - task of Bacteria Biotopes by utilizing support vector machines .
2 Data Set The data set , which was created by collecting titles and abstracts related to microorganisms from PubMed and extracts from full - text articles related to microorganisms living in food products , is provided by the BioNLP Shared Task 2019 BB Task organizers to the participants .
The data set , consisting of 132 training , 67 development , and 97 test documents , was annotated by the bioinformaticians of the Bibliome team of MIG Laboratory at the Institut National de Recherche Agronomique ( INRA ) .
For the training and development phases of BB - norm , document texts with manually annotated named entities and the concepts assigned to them through the OntoBiotope ontology ( INRA , 2013 ) and NCBI taxonomy ( NCBI , 2018 ) were provided , while in the test phase , only the entity boundaries and the entity types were given by the task organizers .
For the training and development phases of BBrel , document texts with manually annotated Microorganism , Habitat , Phenotype andGeographicalentities , as well as the Lives inandExhibits relations were provided , while in the test phase , document texts annotated only for Microorganism , Habitat , Phenotype andGeographical entities were given .
Since our system for the named entity normalization and relation extraction of bacteria biotopes is based on unsupervised approaches and does not require any labeled training data , the errors of the developed system are analyzed on the provided training and the development sets .
The test set is used for the evaluation of the performance of the system .
3 Named Entity Normalization In this section of the paper , the utilized methods for the BB - norm task are explained in detail .
The BB - norm task includes the normalization of Habitatentities and Phenotype entities in a given set of documents through the Onto - Biotope ontology and the normalization of Microorganism entities through the NCBI Taxonomy .
The methods developed for the normalizationof the named entities can be categorized into two according to the type of the entities : Habitat and Phenotype Normalization and Microorganism Normalization .
3.1 Habitat and Phenotype Entities For the normalization of semantically meaningful entities such as Habitat and Phenotype entities , a two - step approach that we have previously proposed in ( Karadeniz and ¨Ozg¨ur , 2019 ) is adapted to this new data set .
According to this approach , for the normalization of an entity mention , the top k semantically most similar ontology concepts are found at the ﬁrst step using the word embedding representations of the entity mention and the ontology concepts .
At the second step , these top k semantically most similar concepts are re - ranked according to a similarity metric that utilizes the constituency parses of the entity mention and ontology concept phrases .
The resulting most similar ontology concept is assigned as the normalized concept for the corresponding mention .
The details of this approach are explained in the following subsections .
3.1.1 Named Entity and Ontology Concept Representations In the pre - processing step , the named entity mentions and the ontology concept names are tokenized , and the stop - words are removed from the mentions and the ontology concept names .
The intuition behind the adapted method is that semantically similar words have similar word vectors .
Following this intuition , the semantic similarity between named entity mentions and ontology concept terms would be higher for the similar pairs , and lower for the dissimilar pairs , if the words can be converted into a machine processable format such as real - valued vectors .
After pre - processing , to convert each word into a real - valued vector , we utilized a pre - trained word embedding model ( Chiu et al . , 2016 ) , which has been trained on PubMed by using the Word2Vec tool ( Mikolov et al . , 2013 ) .
The corresponding word vectors are obtained for each word by using this previously trained model .
For the multiword named entity mentions and ontology concept terms , the vector representations are obtained by averaging the real - valued vectors of their composing words .
1533.1.2 Semantic Filtering After the vector representations are obtained for each entity mention and for each ontology concept term , the semantic similarity between each pair is computed by using the cosine similarity .
For each entity mention , the top kmost similar ontology concepts are retained as candidates for further processing , i.e. , for syntactic weighting based re - ranking .
kis chosen as 5 based on the results obtained in our previous study ( Karadeniz and ¨Ozg¨ur , 2019 ) .
3.1.3 Syntactic Re - ranking For our re - ranking approach , the assumption is that the entity mentions are noun phrases and the most informative words in the mentions are the heads of the noun phrases .
We used the Stanford Parser ( version 3.8.0 ) ( Klein and Manning , 2003 ) to obtain the corresponding head words of the entity mentions by providing the entity mentions as input and extracting the syntactic parses of the mentions as output .
Next , the top level rightmost “ noun ” is searched in the tree structured syntactic parse and assigned as the head of the mention phrase .
The semantic similarities are recomputed using the mathematical formulation shown in Equation ( 1 ) , which considers also the similarity between the head words of the entity mention and ontology concept pair .
In Equation ( 1 ) , SRR(m , c ) is the ﬁnal computed similarity between mention m and the candidate concept c , and SSis the semantic similarity , in which mheadis the head word of the mention mandcheadis the head word of the conceptc , SS(m , c ) is the similarity between mention mand concept ccomputed as described in Section 3.1.1 , and wis a weighting parameter which can take values between 0 and 1 . wis chosen as 0.25 based on the results reported in our previous study ( Karadeniz and ¨Ozg¨ur , 2019 ) .
SRR(m , c ) = ( w * S S(mhead , chead))+((1 - w )
* S S(m , c))(1 ) 3.2 Microorganism Entities The normalization of Microorganism entities component of our system is based on exact matching against the names and synonyms of the concepts in the NCBI taxonomy .
Error analysis on the training and developments data sets revealed that applying some rules may improve the results .
Forinstance , “ Escherichia coli ” has an exact match that can be successfully normalized to the referent concept with an ID “ 562 ” in the NCBI taxonomy .
In the following parts of the document , although the “ E. coli ” mention indicates a clear reference to the same concept , it can not be normalized to the “ Escherichia coli ” concept with an exact matching approach .
In this kind of cases , if an exact match does not exist , the previously mentioned similar entities in the text are searched .
If a match is found , the same concept is assigned as the normalized concept for the corresponding mention “ E. coli ” .
If there does not exist a match with the previously normalized concepts , the root concept with an ID “ 2”is assigned .
4 Relation Extraction 4.1 Localization Relation Extraction Our system for the relation extraction sub - task is based on the naive assumption that the related entities for most of the relations appear within the same sentence .
Therefore , ﬁrstly , the input texts are split into sentences using the NLTK library .
For the extraction of Lives inrelations , all the sentences in the related document are searched to determine whether there exists a Microorganism entity and a Habitat entity or a Microorganism entity and a Geographical entity in the corresponding sentence .
If there exists such a pair , this will be a sign of a Lives inrelation .
For any given sentence , there can be more than oneHabitat entity and Microorganism entity .
For this kind of sentences , two different approaches , which are called smart matching anddistributed matching , are applied .
In smart matching , each Habitat entity is paired with the closest Microorganism entity .
In other words , the locations of each type of entities in the sentences are checked , and then the pairing process of the Microorganismand the Habitat entities are done based on the proximity criteria .
In distributed matching , on the other hand , each Habitat entity is paired with everyMicroorganism entity in the sentence .
Distributed matching can be seen as a type of N x N matching , while smart matching 1 x 1 matching .
The performance of each approach is tested on the development data set .
While there is slight increase in the precision , the recall is observed to decrease considerably for the smart matching method ( see Table 1 ) .
As a result , the distributed matching approach is used in the ﬁnal submission .
154Table 1 : Distributed vs Smart Matching for relation extraction .
Precision , Recall , F - measure values for the development data set are reported .
Distributed Matching Smart Matching Precision 0.491 0.576
Recall 0.785 0.515 F - measure 0.604 0.544 For the overlapping entities in which one entity contains another , some relations can be ignored .
For instance , for the sample sentence “ An example of this fact is the presence of Psychrobacter DNA on the surface of Formaggio di Fossa cheeses ” , the Habitat entity “ surface of Formaggio di Fossa cheeses ” , Habitat entity “ Formaggio di Fossa cheeses ” , and Habitat entity“cheeses ” are overlapping entities .
In this case , it would not be appropriate to build three relations such as “ Psychrobacter ” -“surface of Formaggio di Fossa cheeses ” , “ Psychrobacter ” “ Formaggio di Fossa cheeses ” , and “ Psychrobacter ” -“cheeses ” .
Instead of extracting multiple relations , “ cheeses ” can be ignored and two relations between “ Psychrobacter ” -“surface of Formaggio di Fossa cheeses ” and“Psychrobacter ” “ Formaggio di Fossa cheeses ” are extracted .
This strategy , where the shortest overlapping entity is ignored , is called as the soft ﬁlter operation .
On the other hand , the strategy when only the longest overlapping entity is retained and the remaining ones are ignored , is named as the hard ﬁlter operation .
In hard ﬁltering , “ Psychrobacter ” -“Formaggio di Fossa cheeses ” and“Psychrobacter ” “ cheeses ” are ignored and only one relation between “ Psychrobacter ” -“surface of Formaggio di Fossa cheeses ” is extracted .
The performance of each approach is tested on the development data set ( see Table 2 ) .
Table 2 : Soft Filter vs Hard Filter for relation extraction .
Precision , Recall , F - measure values for the development data set are reported .
Soft Filter Hard Filter Precision 0.584 0.575 Recall 0.768 0.639 F - measure 0.616 0.561
Since our rule - based system for relation extraction is based on the assumption that most of the relations appear within the same sentences , our system is not able to catch the relations that cross sentence boundaries .
To overcome this problem , a new rule , which is called remote matching , is integrated into the system .
According to this rule , if there exists only one entity type ( Microorganism ) in a sentence , and within a context window of three sentences there exists only one entity ( Habitat or Geographical ) , then there is a relation between these two entities .
The performance of the remote matching rule is tested on the development data set .
The results show that the number of the predicted relations increased , which also led to an increase in recall .
The obtained precision and recall values are 51.4 % and 78.5 % , respectively .
4.2 Exhibits Relation Extraction Similar to the extraction of localization relations , for the extraction of Exhibits relations , all the sentences are searched for whether there exist a Microorganism entity and a Phenotype entity .
The same rules that are explained in the previous subsection are applied for the extraction of the Exhibits relations .
5 Evaluation In the BioNLP Shared Task 2019 Bacteria Biotopes normalization sub - task , entities are given with their boundaries in the text and the participants are required to predict the normalization of the entities .
In the ofﬁcial evaluation , for each normalized Habitat / Phenotype entity , Wang similarity W(Wang et
al . , 2007 ) is calculated to measure the similarity between the reference concept and the predicted concept for the normalization .
The performances of the submitted systems are evaluated with their Precision values , which are calculated as : Precision = X Sp/ N ( 2 ) where Spindicates the total Wang similarity W for all predictions ( Deleger et al . , 2016 ) , and Nis the number of predicted entities .
In the BioNLP Shared Task 2019 Bacteria Biotopes relation extraction sub - task , entities are given with their boundaries in the text and the participants are asked to predict the relations between the entities .
The performances of the submitted systems are evaluated with their F1 ( F - measure ) , recall and precision values .
1555.1 Results of BB - norm The ofﬁcial results obtained by our system and the other participants for the BB - norm sub - task are shown in Table 3 .
Our system ( BOUN - ISIK-2 ) achieved the best performance with 67:9 % Precision in the BB - norm sub - task ( Entity Normalization ) .
Table 3 : Comparison with the participant systems for the normalization task of bacteria biotopes .
Precision values for the test data set are reported .
kis set to 5and wto0:25for the proposed system ( BOUN - ISIK ) .
System Precision BOUN - ISIK-2 ( Our system ) 0.679 BLAIR GMU-2 0.678 BOUN - ISIK-1 ( Our system ) 0.675 BLAIR GMU-1 0.661 PADIA BacReader-1 0.633 BASELINE-1 0.531 AmritaCen healthcare-1 0.514 As the results in Table 4 demonstrate , our system performs signiﬁcantly better than the other systems for the normalization of new Phenotype entities in the test set ( Precision : 70:8 % ) .
Table 4 : Comparison with the participant systems for the normalization task considering only Phenotype entities .
Precision values for the test data set are reported .
System Phenotypes Phenotypes ( new in test )
BOUN - ISIK ( Our system ) 0.566 0.708 PADIA BacReader-1 0.758 0.156 BASELINE-1 0.582 0.116 BLAIR GMU-2 0.646 0.03 BLAIR GMU-1 0.628 0.03 AmritaCen healthcare-1 0.646 0.0 5.2 Results of BB - rel The ofﬁcial results obtained by our system and the other participants for the BB - rel task are demonstrated in Table 5
. 6 Conclusion In this study , we presented two systems that are implemented in the scope of the BioNLP Shared Task 2019 - Bacteria Biotope Task .
The aim of the ﬁrst system is the normalization of the entity mentions in a biomedical text through the corresponding ontology , whereas the goal of the secondTable 5 : Comparison with the participant systems for the relation extraction task of bacteria biotopes .
F1 , Recall and Precision values for the test data set are reported .
System F1 Recall Precision whunlp-1 0.664 0.702 0.629 AliAI-1 0.650 0.620 0.682 BASELINE-1 0.635 0.801 0.525 Yuhang
Wu-1 0.605 0.670 0.551
BOUN - ISIK-1 ( soft ﬁlter ) 0.604 0.731 0.514 BLAIR GMU-2 0.594 0.650 0.548 BOUN - ISIK-2 ( hard ﬁlter ) 0.575 0.601 0.552 BLAIR GMU-1 0.549 0.496 0.617 UTU-2 0.550 0.474 0.655 UTU-1 0.529 0.428 0.694 Amrita Cen-1
0.499 0.617 0.419
Amrita Cen-2 0.493 0.610 0.414 system is the extraction of localization and property relations between the related entities when the entities are given .
Both systems are unsupervised in the sense that they do not require domainspeciﬁc labeled data , while the normalization system makes use of word embeddings and syntactic re - ranking .
According to the ofﬁcial evaluation , both of our systems achieved promising results , which have shown that the proposed methods are comparable to or better than the labeled data driven deep learning based approaches used in the shared task .
Acknowledgments We would like to thank the BioNLP shared task organizers , especially , Robert Bossy for their help with the questions .
References Antti Airola , Sampo Pyysalo , Jari Bj ¨orne , Tapio Pahikkala , Filip Ginter , and Tapio Salakoski . 2008 .
A graph kernel for protein - protein interaction extraction .
In Proceedings of the workshop on current trends in biomedical natural language processing , pages 1–9 .
Association for Computational Linguistics .
Jari Bj ¨orne and Tapio Salakoski .
2013 .
Tees 2.1 : Automated annotation scheme learning in the bionlp 2013 shared task .
In Proceedings of the BioNLP shared task 2013 workshop , pages 16–25 .
Robert Bossy , Louise Del ´ eger , Estelle Chaix , Mouhamadou Ba , and Claire Nedellec .
2019 .
Bacteria Biotope at BioNLP Open Shared Tasks 2019 .
In Proceedings of the BioNLP Open Shared Tasks 2019 Workshop .
Robert Bossy , Wiktoria Golik , Zorana Ratkovic , Dialekti Valsamou , Philippe Bessieres , and Claire
156N´edellec .
2015 .
Overview of the gene regulation network and the bacteria biotope tasks in bionlp’13 shared task .
BMC bioinformatics , 16(10):S1 .
Robert Bossy , Julien Jourde , Philippe Bessieres , Maarten Van De Guchte , and Claire N ´ edellec .
2011 .
Bionlp shared task 2011 : bacteria biotope .
In Proceedings of the BioNLP Shared Task 2011 Workshop , pages 56–64 .
Association for Computational Linguistics .
` Alex Bravo , Janet Pi ˜nero , N ´ uria Queralt - Rosinach , Michael Rautschka , and Laura I Furlong .
2015 .
Extraction of relations between genes and diseases from text and large - scale data analysis : implications for translational research .
BMC bioinformatics , 16(1):55 .
Billy Chiu , Gamal Crichton , Anna Korhonen , and Sampo Pyysalo . 2016 .
How to train good word embeddings for biomedical nlp .
Proceedings of BioNLP16 , page 166 .
Sung - Pil Choi .
2018 .
Extraction of protein – protein interactions ( ppis ) from the literature by deep convolutional neural networks with various feature embeddings .
Journal of Information Science , 44(1):60–73 .
Louise Deleger , Robert Bossy , Estelle Chaix , Mouhamadou Ba , Arnaud Ferre , Philippe Bessieres , and Claire Nedellec . 2016 .
Overview of the bacteria biotope task at bionlp shared task 2016 .
In Proceedings of the 4th BioNLP Shared Task Workshop , pages 12–22 .
Arnaud Ferr ´ e , Pierre Zweigenbaum , and Claire N´edellec .
2017 .
Representation of complex terms in a vector space structured by an ontology for a normalization task .
BioNLP 2017 , pages 99–106 .
Claudio Giuliano , Alberto Lavelli , and Lorenza Romano .
2006 .
Exploiting shallow linguistic information for relation extraction from biomedical literature .
In 11th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics .
J¨org Hakenberg , Conrad Plake , Robert Leaman , Michael Schroeder , and Graciela Gonzalez . 2008 .
Inter - species normalization of gene mentions with gnat .
Bioinformatics , 24(16):i126 – i132 .
INRA .
2013 .
Onto - Biotope Ontology .
Accessed at December 2018 .
Ilknur Karadeniz and Arzucan Ozg ¨ur .
2013 .
Bacteria biotope detection , ontology - based normalization , and relation extraction using syntactic rules .
In Proceedings of the BioNLP Shared Task 2013 Workshop , pages 170–177 .
˙Ilknur Karadeniz and Arzucan ¨Ozg¨ur . 2015 .
Detection and categorization of bacteria habitats using shallow linguistic analysis .
BMC bioinformatics , 16(10):S5.Ilknur Karadeniz and Arzucan ¨Ozg¨ur . 2019 .
Linking entities through an ontology using word embeddings and syntactic re - ranking .
BMC bioinformatics , 20(1):156 .
Sun Kim , Haibin Liu , Lana Yeganova , and W John Wilbur . 2015 .
Extracting drug – drug interactions from literature using a rich feature - based linear kernel approach .
Journal of biomedical informatics , 55:23–30 .
Dan Klein and Christopher D Manning .
2003 .
Accurate unlexicalized parsing .
In Proceedings of the 41st Annual Meeting on Association for Computational Linguistics - Volume 1 , pages 423–430 .
Association for Computational Linguistics .
Robert Leaman , Rezarta Islamaj Do ˘gan , and Zhiyong Lu . 2013 .
Dnorm : disease name normalization with pairwise learning to rank .
Bioinformatics , 29(22):2909–2917 .
Jake Lever and Steven JM Jones .
2016 .
Verse : Event and relation extraction in the bionlp 2016 shared task .
In Proceedings of the 4th BioNLP shared task workshop , pages 42–49 .
Haodi Li , Qingcai Chen , Buzhou Tang , Xiaolong Wang , Hua Xu , Baohua Wang , and Dong Huang . 2017 .
Cnn - based ranking for biomedical entity normalization .
BMC bioinformatics , 18(11):385 .
Zhiyong Lu , Hung - Yu Kao , Chih - Hsuan Wei , Minlie Huang , Jingchen Liu , Cheng - Ju Kuo , ChunNan Hsu , Richard Tzong - Han Tsai , Hong - Jie Dai , Naoaki Okazaki , et al . 2011 .
The gene normalization task in biocreative iii .
BMC bioinformatics , 12(8):S2 .
Farrokh Mehryary , Kai Hakala , Suwisa Kaewphan , Jari Bj¨orne , Tapio Salakoski , and Filip Ginter . 2017 .
End - to - end system for bacteria habitat extraction .
BioNLP 2017 , pages 80–90 .
Tomas Mikolov , Ilya Sutskever , Kai Chen , Greg S Corrado , and Jeff Dean .
2013 .
Distributed representations of words and phrases and their compositionality .
In Advances in neural information processing systems , pages 3111–3119 .
Alexander A Morgan , Zhiyong Lu , Xinglong Wang , Aaron M Cohen , Juliane Fluck , Patrick Ruch , Anna Divoli , Katrin Fundel , Robert Leaman , J ¨org Hakenberg , et al . 2008 .
Overview of biocreative ii gene normalization .
Genome biology , 9(2):S3 .
NCBI .
2018 .
NCBI Taxonomy .
Accessed at December 2018 .
Isabel Segura - Bedmar , Paloma Martinez , and Cesar de Pablo - S ´ anchez .
2011 .
Using a shallow linguistic kernel for drug – drug interaction extraction .
Journal of biomedical informatics , 44(5):789–804 .
157Mert Tiftikci , Hakan S ¸ahin , Berfu B ¨uy¨uk¨oz , Alper Yayıkc ¸ı , and Arzucan ¨Ozg¨ur . 2016 .
Ontology - based categorization of bacteria and habitat entities using information retrieval techniques .
In Proceedings of the 4th BioNLP Shared Task Workshop , pages 56 – 63 .
James Z Wang , Zhidian Du , Rapeeporn Payattakool , Philip S Yu , and Chin - Fu Chen .
2007 .
A new method to measure the semantic similarity of go terms .
Bioinformatics , 23(10):1274–1281 .
Chih - Hsuan Wei and Hung - Yu Kao . 2011 .
Crossspecies gene normalization by species inference .
BMC bioinformatics , 12(8):S5 .
Joachim Wermter , Katrin Tomanek , and Udo Hahn .
2009 .
High - performance gene name normalization with geno .
Bioinformatics , 25(6):815–821 .
