Analysing the Integration of Semantic Web Features for Document Planning across Genres
Marta Vicente Department of Software and Computing Systems University of Alicante Apdo .
de Correos 99 E-03080 , Alicante , Spain mvicente@dlsi.ua.es
Abstract
Language is usually studied and analysed from different disciplines generally on the premise that it constitutes a form of communication which pursues a speciﬁc objective .
The discourse , in that sense , can be understood as a text which is constructed to express such objective .
When a discourse is created , its production is related to some textual genre , usually connected with some pragmatic features , like the intention of the writer or the audience to whom is addressed , both conditioning the use of language .
But genres can be considered as well as compounds of different pieces of text with a certain degree of order , each one seeking for more concrete objectives .
This paper presents a proposal to learn such features as a way to generate richer document plans , applying clustering techniques over annotated documents .
1 Motivation and Research Context
The current research is carried out from a conception of Natural Language Generation ( NLG ) for which the creation of a text requires an intermediate output called a document plan .
It is by the macroplanning stage that the system provides this plan of selected and ordered content .
At present , our work is focused on how to elaborate that plan in order to meet some requisites regarding ﬂexit should be able to proibility of the system : duce different outcomes conditioned by the communicative goal , the audience , ... the context , on the whole .
Henceforth , the main aim of our current research is to enrich the pragmatic facet of the NLG process .
The expected outcome is a scheme or ordering of the ideas that should be realised in
Elena Lloret Department of Software and Computing Systems University of Alicante Apdo .
de Correos 99 E-03080 , Alicante , Spain elloret@dlsi.ua.es
a set of cohesive and coherent sentences and paragraphs .
According to some theories of the discourse ( Bakhtin , 2010 ; Halliday et al , 2014 ) , genres can be understood as social constructions that settle a connection between the discourse and the situation in which it is produced , reﬂected both in its structure and its content .
According to Swavels ( 1990 ):
“ A genre comprises a class of communicative events , the members of which share some set of communicative purposes .
These purposes are recognised by the expert members of the parent discourse community , and thereby constitute the rationale for the genre .
This rationale shapes the schematic structure of the discourse and inﬂuences and constraints choice of content and style . ”
Besides , genres become interesting because they are related to communicative purposes in different manners , from a global viewpoint to ﬁne - grained levels .
As an example , we can think on the case of a person who is looking for recommendation in review pages .
Recommending would be the main , global purpose of the text he consults when it was created .
But it is possible that the writer also wanted to explain the motivation of the journey narrative , personal experience - or to describe the facilities in order to complete his review .
Narration , description , recommendation , ... they represent low - level functions of the text related to the intention of the writer and , in some cases , they can be identiﬁed as different sets of sentences .
This lead us to the possibility of learning the structure of the text and its features , which differs from one genre to another .
In reviews , the presence and order of the parts is not strict .
Maybe one traveller does not share his personal story , but also he describes the room and recom  mends the brand , while another one ﬁrst evaluates and then describes .
An example to illustrate this can be found in table 1 .
Conversely , it would make no sense to write a scientiﬁc article that reports the results before explaining the methodology or not explaining it at all , for example .
Review 1 Personal Experience :
On our last trip to Hawaii my husband and I ...
As an added bonus , we were given ...
We decided to take advantage of ...
Description : The lobby is adorned with lush gardens ...
Alongside the gardens are tropical birds ...
The rooms are spacious .
Recommendation : If you are ever fortunate enough to visit the beautiful island of Kauai , try to stay at the H Regency , you wo n’t be disappointed .
Review 2 Description : The W New York is on Lexington right ...
The rooms are just as small as before ...
The lobby of the hotel is also ...
Personal Experience : Being a corporate lawyer I travel ...
The ﬁrst time I was in a small room ...
The second time I could not believe ...
Description : Although the room size is awful , the hotel does have some nice touches .
Another beneﬁt of the hotel is that ...
Table 1 : Review ordering from a functional approach .
Just with the ﬁrst words of the sentences some characteristic features can be appreciated ( Verb tenses , person - thirdﬁrst- , ... )
Therefore , our hypothesis is that it is possible to characterise subparts of a discourse ( related to a genre ) according to their functionality and , at the same time , learn about its ( ﬂexible ) ordering .
Due to the lack of annotated corpora with discourse information about that communicative purposes , we propose to work with unsupervised techniques to achieve that goal .
We expect to obtain the necessary knowledge to produce appropriate document plans .
Taking into account several genres that normally exhibit a pre - deﬁned or known - in - advance structure , such as the case of news , Wikipedia pages , or scientiﬁc article , we would be able to
validate our suggested approach in other textual genres that lacks such well - deﬁned structure a priori .
Our methodology relies on pattern detection techniques .
Until now , we have tried clustering that does not require previous knowledge of the number of clusters .
Over an annotated corpus we apply an Expectation - Maximisation ( EM ) algorithm , having included within the features linguistic information related to its placement .
The remainder of this paper is organised as follows .
Section 2 summarises the related work concerning text classiﬁcation efforts and genre studies related to communication objectives .
Section 3 describes the kind of linguistic lexical features that we have been using in our experiments until now .
After that , section 4 describes some resources coming from the Semantic Web environment that could complement and enrich those features .
Finally , section 5 describes the experiments already performed and outlines future research opportunities .
2 Related Work
Back in 1997 , Hearst tried to detect the structure of text using patterns of lexical co - occurrence to identify paragraphs related to the same topic ( Hearst , 1997 ) .
In this case , term repetition proved to be enough to detect subtopics in explanatory texts , but did not include consideration about other traits of the discourse ( e.g. syntactic constructions , verb tenses , number of adjectives in each region ) neither recovering more meaning further than topic identiﬁcation , as could be the purpose intended on the paragraph(s ) .
Besides , the author remarked that the results had proved highly valuable when applied to explanatory text , but they would be less signiﬁcant for other text types .
From another point of view , Bachand ( Bachand et al , 2014 ) develops a research focused on the relations between text - type , discourse structures and rhetorical relations .
Again , the experiments conducted are implemented on a single type of feature , this time rhetorical relations and markers .
The good results obtained by the author indicate that our approach , which is grounded in similar intuitions , can reach comparable developments that we expect will enrich our capacity for generating accurate document plans .
Regarding reviews , most of the work developed refers to sentiment analysis or polarity classiﬁca  tion ( Cambria et al , 2013 ) .
A few research works have been focused on the structure related to textual genres , relying on the Systemic Functional Theory ( Taboada , 2011 ) .
The relations of different parts of the text with several purposes are revealed , focusing their analysis on the domain of movie reviews , and showing at the same time the variability of the ordering in such type of documents .
Finally , a special mention must be done to the Systemic Functional Theory ( Halliday et al , 2014 ) .
It provides a notion of genre that connects situation types with semantic / lexico - grammatic patterns from a conception of language highly related to its socio - semiotic origin .
A textual typology is depicted on this terms , connected as well with the context of the discourse and the semantic choices to organise it ( Matthiessen , 2014 ) .
On the other hand , and as a more precise example , the typology of processes that Halliday and Mathiessen describe , directly inﬂuences the classiﬁcation accomplished by ADESSE , one of the resources applied in our experiments over Spanish reviews , explained in the next section .
3 Analysis of the Features
Having pointed out the expanse of the related work , our approach wants to overcome its limitations .
On the one hand , in the sense of being suitable for any genre , not a particular one .
On the other hand , focusing on several types of features at the same time , in order to propose a more comprehensive description of the parts of a discourse .
With regard to accomplish such a project , the selection and design of the proper features becomes a challenging task itself , strongly related to the aim of the investigation .
Speciﬁcally , we try to detect the features that may reveal links with the functionality or purpose of the paragraph that includes them .
We have begun annotating several aspects by means of linguistic tools and resources : Freeling ( Padr´o and Stanilovsky , 2012 ) for PoS annotation and Entity Recognition and ADESSE ( Garc´ıa - Miguel et al , 2010 ) as a source of verb senses from a semantic perspective .
4 Semantic Web to enrich the Data Set
We believe that , in order to become more meaningful , the quality of features could be improved by means of some resources rooted in Web Semantic technologies .
There is some research related to In the genres that can be useful in our project .
ADESSE verb senses Mental , material , relational , verbal , existential and modulation FREELING features PoS tagging : noun , adjective , pronoun , verb ( tense , aspect , ... ) , etc .
Table 2 : Features annotated over the corpus of reviews .
realm of reviews , opinion and sentiment annotation , we can take advantage for example of MARL Ontology Speciﬁcation1 , a data schema that has been used in the EuroSentiment Project ( Buitelaar et al , 2013 ) or directly related to reviews from a Sentiment Analysis perspective ( Santosh and Vardhan , 2015 ) .
Other genres have been targeted for similar developments .
With regard to news genre , in order to obtain more signiﬁcant annotation of the documents , BBC provides a set of ontologies related to their contents .
DBPedia has been already proved useful for Wikipedia articles researchers .
Drammar ( Lombardo and Damiano , 2012 ) and OntoMedia ( Jewell et al , 2005 ) are ontology - based models for annotating features of media and cultural narratives .
All of them represent resources that may lead to different results in our clustering task and analysis .
5 On - going Work
Until now , some experiments have been performed over a corpus of Spanish reviews extracted from Tripadvisor .
The reviews were segmented into sentences , and some ﬁgures regarding semantic and morphological features were computed after dividing each document in regions ( sets of sentences ) , increasing their number from one block up to four blocks of sentences .
Table 3 shows some statistics of the corpus employed .
Number of reviews Sentences Words labelled
1400 12,467 around 200,000
Table 3 : Corpus statistics .
In order to strengthen the results , corpora of other genres with different degree of ﬂexibility in their structure are being analysed : tales , news and Wikipedia articles are to be compared with the for1http://www.gsi.dit.upm.es/ontologies/marl
MAK Halliday , Christian MIM Matthiessen , Michael Halliday , and Christian Matthiessen .
2014 .
An introduction to functional grammar .
Routledge .
Marti A. Hearst .
1997 .
Texttiling : Segmenting text into multi - paragraph subtopic passages .
Computational linguistics , 23(1):33–64 .
Michael O. Jewell , K. Faith Lawrence , Mischa M. Tufﬁeld , Adam Prugel - Bennett , David E. Millard , Mark S. Nixon , Nigel R. Shadbolt , et al 2005 .
Ontomedia : An ontology for the representation of heterogeneous media .
In In Proceeding of SIGIR workshop on Mutlimedia Information Retrieval .
ACM SIGIR .
Vincenzo Lombardo and Rossana Damiano .
2012 .
Semantic annotation of narrative media objects .
Multimedia Tools and Applications , 59(2):407–439 .
Christian MIM Matthiessen .
2014 .
Registerial cartography : context - based mapping of text types and their rhetorical - relational organization .
Llu´ıs Padr´o and Evgeny Stanilovsky .
2012 .
FreeLing 3.0 : Towards Wider Multilinguality .
In Proceedings of the Eight International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation ( LREC’12 ) .
European Language Resources Association ( ELRA ) .
D. Teja Santosh and B. Vishnu Vardhan .
2015 .
Feature and sentiment based linked instance rdf data towards ontology based review categorization .
In Proceedings of the World Congress on Engineering , volume 1 .
John Swales . 1990 .
Genre analysis : English in academic and research settings .
Cambridge University Press .
Maite Taboada .
2011 .
Stages in an online review Text & Talk - An Interdisciplinary Journal genre . of Language , Discourse & Communication Studies , 31(2):247–269 .
mer outcomes .
The length of the blocks is the result of a proportional division of the length of the document for now .
As the research advances , new experiments will be developed to determine a more accurate size for the pseudo - paragraphs .
With the ideas introduced in the section 4 , our next step and proposal , includes improving the signiﬁcance of the features with which the clustering algorithms have to work , trying to reveal an inner structure of the text related to its genre and purposes .
The better our features are , the more precise the descriptions we can do of the discourse areas .
Acknowledgments
by
the
research work has been supported by This grant the Generalitat Valenciana ACIF/2016/501.It has also funded by the University of Alicante , Spanish Government and the European Commission through the ” Explotaci´on y tratamiento de la projects ,
informaci´on disponible en Internet para
la anotaci´on y generaci´on de textos adaptados al usuario ” ( GRE13 - 15 ) and ” DIIM2.0 : Desarrollo de t´ecnicas Inteligentes e
Interactivas de Miner´ıa
y generaci´on de informaci´on sobre la web 2.0 ” ( PROMETEOII/2014/001 ) , TIN201565100 - R , TIN2015 - 65136 - C2 - 2 - R , and SAM ( FP7 - 611312 ) , respectively .
