AMR Parsing via Graph Sequence Iterative Inference *
We propose a new end - to - end model that treats AMR parsing as a series of dual decisions on the input sequence and the incrementally constructed graph . At each time step , our model performs multiple rounds of attention , reasoning , and composition that aim to answer two critical questions : ( 1 ) which part of the input sequence to abstract ; and ( 2 ) where in the output graph to construct the new concept . We show that the answers to these two questions are mutually causalities . We design a model based on iterative inference that helps achieve better answers in both perspectives , leading to greatly improved parsing accuracy . Our experimental results significantly outperform all previously reported SMATCH scores by large margins . Remarkably , without the help of any large - scale pre - trained language model ( e.g. , BERT ) , our model already surpasses previous state - of - the - art using BERT . With the help of BERT , we can push the state - of - the - art results to 80.2 % on LDC2017T10 ( AMR 2.0 ) and 75.4 % on LDC2014T12 ( AMR 1.0 ) .
Abstract Meaning Representation ( AMR ) ( Banarescu et al , 2013 ) is a broad - coverage semantic formalism that encodes the meaning of a sentence as a rooted , directed , and labeled graph , where nodes represent concepts and edges represent relations ( See an example in Figure 1 ) . AMR parsing is the task of transforming natural language text into AMR . One biggest challenge of AMR parsing is the lack of explicit alignments between nodes ( concepts ) in the graph and words in the text . This characteristic not only poses great difficulty in concept * The work described in this paper is substantially supported by grants from the Research Grant Council of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region , China ( Project Code : 14204418 ) and the Direct Grant of the Faculty of Engineering , CUHK ( Project Code : 4055093 ) . prediction but also brings a close tie for concept prediction and relation prediction . While most previous works rely on a pre - trained aligner to train a parser , some recent attempts include : modeling the alignments as latent variables ( Lyu and Titov , 2018 ) , attention - based sequenceto - sequence transduction models ( Barzdins and Gosko , 2016 ; Konstas et al , 2017 ; van Noord and Bos , 2017 ) , and attention - based sequence - to - graph transduction models ( Cai and Lam , 2019 ; Zhang et al , 2019b ) . Sequence - to - graph transduction models build a semantic graph incrementally via spanning one node at every step . This property is appealing in terms of both computational efficiency and cognitive modeling since it mimics what human experts usually do , i.e. , first grasping the core ideas then digging into more details ( Banarescu et al , 2013 ; Cai and Lam , 2019 ) . Unfortunately , the parsing accuracy of existing works including recent state - of - the - arts ( Zhang et al , 2019a , b ) remain unsatisfactory compared to human - level performance , 1 especially in cases where the sentences are rather long and informative , which indicates substantial room for improvement . One possible reason for the deficiency is the inherent defect of one - pass prediction process ; that is , the lack of the modeling capability of the interactions between concept prediction and relation prediction , which is critical to achieving fullyinformed and unambiguous decisions . We introduce a new approach tackling AMR parsing , following the incremental sequence - tograph transduction paradigm . We explicitly characterize each spanning step as the efforts for finding which part to abstract with respect to the input sequence , and where to construct with respect to the partially constructed output graph . Equivalently , we treat AMR parsing as a series of dual decisions on the input sequence and the incrementally constructed graph . Intuitively , the answer of what concept to abstract decides where to construct ( i.e. , the relations to existing concepts ) , while the answer of where to construct determines what concept to abstract . Our proposed model , supported by neural networks with explicit structure for attention , reasoning , and composition , integrated with an iterative inference algorithm . It iterates between finding supporting text pieces and reading the partially constructed semantic graph , inferring more accurate and harmonious expansion decisions progressively . Our model is aligner - free and can be effectively trained with limited amount of labeled data . Experiments on two AMR benchmarks demonstrate that our parser outperforms the previous best parsers on both benchmarks . It achieves the best - reported SMATCH scores ( F1 ) : 80.2 % on LDC2017T10 and 75.4 % on LDC2014T12 , surpassing the previous state - of - the - art models by large margins .
On a coarse - grained level , we can categorize existing AMR parsing approaches into two main classes : Two - stage parsing ( Flanigan et al , 2014 ; Lyu and Titov , 2018 ; Zhang et al , 2019a ) uses a pipeline design for concept identification and relation prediction , where the concept decisions precede all relation decisions ; One - stage parsing constructs a parse graph incrementally . For more fine - grained analysis , those one - stage parsing methods can be further categorized into three types : Transitionbased parsing ( Wang et al , 2016 ; Damonte et al , 2017 ; Ballesteros and Al - Onaizan , 2017 ; Peng et al , 2017 ; Guo and Lu , 2018 ; Liu et al , 2018 ; Naseem et al , 2019 ) processes a sentence from left - to - right and constructs the graph incrementally by alternately inserting a new node or building a new edge . Seq2seq - based parsing ( Barzdins and Gosko , 2016 ; Konstas et al , 2017 ; van Noord and Bos , 2017 ; Peng et al , 2018 ) views parsing as sequence - to - sequence transduction by some linearization of the AMR graph . The concept and relation prediction are then treated equally with a shared vocabulary . The third class is graph - based parsing ( Cai and Lam , 2019 ; Zhang et al , 2019b ) , where at each time step , a new node along with its connections to existing nodes are jointly decided , either in order ( Cai and Lam , 2019 ) or in parallel ( Zhang et al , 2019b ) . So far , the recip - The boy must not go The current partial ( solid ) and full ( solid + dashed ) AMR graphs for the sentence " The boy must no go " rocal causation of relation prediction and concept prediction has not been closely - studied and wellutilized . There are also some exceptions staying beyond the above categorization . Peng et al ( 2015 ) introduce a synchronous hyperedge replacement grammar solution . Pust et al ( 2015 ) regard the task as a machine translation problem , while Artzi et al ( 2015 ) adapt combinatory categorical grammar . Groschwitz et al ( 2018 ) ; Lindemann et al ( 2019 ) view AMR graphs as the structure AM algebra .
Our approach is inspired by the deliberation process when a human expert is deducing a semantic graph from a sentence . The output graph starts from an empty graph and spans incrementally in a node - by - node manner . At any time step of this process , we are distilling the information for the next expansion . We call it expansion because the new node , as an abstract concept of some specific text fragments in the input sentence , is derived to complete some missing elements in the current semantic graph . Specifically , given the input sentence and the current partially constructed graph , we are answering two critical questions : which part of the input sequence to abstract , and where in the output graph to construct the new concept . For instance , Figure 1 ( a ) and ( b ) show two possible choices for the next expansion . In Figure 1 ( a ) , the word " boy " is abstracted to the concept boy to complement the subject information of the event go - 02 . On the ( Current Graph ) ( Input Sequence ) The boy wants the girl to believe him .
The boy wants the girl to believe him . attention x t y t+ 1 … initial state x 0 f ( G i , x 0 ) f ( G i , x 1 ) g ( W , y 1 ) g ( W , y 2 ) y 1 x 1 y 2 G i W graph memory Figure 2 : Overview of the dual graph - sequence iterative inference for AMR parsing . Given the current graph G i and input sequence W . The inference starts with an initial concept decision x 0 and follows the inference chain x 0 f ( G i , x 0 ) y 1 g ( W , y 1 ) x 1 f ( G i , x 1 ) y 2 g ( W , y 2 ) . The details of f and g are shown in red and blue boxes , where nodes in graph and tokens in sequence are selected via attention mechanisms . other hand , in Figure 1 ( b ) , a polarity attribute of the event go - 2 is constructed , which is triggered by the word " not " in the sentence . We note that the answer to one of the questions can help answer the other . For instance , if we have decided to render the word " not " to the graph , then we will consider adding an edge labeled as polarity , and finally determine its attachment to the existing event go - 2 ( rather than an edge labeled ARG0 to the same event go - 2 , though it is also present in the golden graph ) . On the other hand , if we have decided to find the subject ( ARG0 relation ) of the action go - 02 , we are confident to locate the word " boy " instead of function words like " not " or " must " , thus unambiguously predict the right concept boy . Another possible circumstance is that we may make a mistake trying to ask something that is not present in the sentence ( e.g. , the destination of the go - 02 action ) . This attempt will be rejected by a review of the sentence . The rationale is that literally we can not find the destination information in the sentence . Similarly , if we mistakenly propose to abstract some parts of the sentence that are not ready for construction yet , the proposal will be rejected by another inspection on the graph since that there is nowhere to place such a new concept . We believe the mutual causalities , as described above , are useful for action disambiguation and harmonious decision making , which eventually result in more accurate parses . We formulate AMR parsing as a series of dual graph - sequence decisions and design an iterative inference approach to tackle each of them . It is sort of analogous to the cognition procedure of a person , who might first notice part of the important information in one side ( graph or sequence ) , then try to confirm her decision at the other side , which could just refute her former hypothesis and propose a new one , and finally converge to a conclusion after multiple rounds of reasoning .
Formally , the parsing model consists of a series of graph expansion procedures { G 0 . . . G i . . . } , starting from an empty graph G 0 . In each turn of expansion , the following iterative inference process is performed : y i t = g ( G i , x i t ) , x i t+1 = f ( W , y i t ) , where W , G i are the input sequence and the current semantic graph respectively . g ( ) , f ( ) seek where to construct ( edge prediction ) and what to abstract ( node prediction ) respectively , and x i t , y i t are the t - th graph hypothesis ( where to construct ) and t - th sequence hypothesis ( what to abstract ) for the i - th expansion step respectively . For clarity , we may drop the superscript i in the following descriptions . Figure 2 depicts an overview of the graphsequence iterative inference process . Our model has four main components : ( 1 ) Sequence Encoder , which generates a set of text memories ( per token ) to provide grounding for concept alignment and abstraction ; ( 2 ) Graph Encoder , which generates a set of graph memories ( per node ) to provide grounding for relation reasoning ; ( 3 ) Concept Solver , where a previous graph hypothesis is used for concept prediction ; and ( 4 ) Graph Solver , where a previous concept hypothesis is used for relation prediction . The last two components correspond to the reasoning functions g ( ) and f ( ) respectively . The text memories can be computed by Sentence Encoder at the beginning of the whole parsing while the graph memories are constructed by Graph Encoder incrementally as the parsing progresses . During the iterative inference , a semantic representation of current state is used to attend to both graph and text memories ( blue and red arrows ) in order to locate the new concept and obtain its relations to the existing graph , both of which subsequently refine each other . Intuitively , after a first glimpse of the input sentence and the current graph , specific sub - areas of both sequence and graph are revisited to obtain a better understanding of the current situation . Later steps typically read the text in detail with specific learning aims , either confirming or overturning a previous hypothesis . Finally , after several iterations of reasoning steps , the refined sequence / graph decisions are used for graph expansion .
As mentioned above , we employ a sequence encoder to convert the input sentence into vector representations . The sequence encoder follows the multi - layer Transformer architecture described in Vaswani et al ( 2017 ) . At the bottom layer , each token is firstly transformed into the concatenation of features learned by a character - level convolutional neural network ( charCNN , Kim et al , 2016 ) and randomly initialized embeddings for its lemma , part - of - speech tag , and named entity tag . Additionally , we also include features learned by pre - trained language model BERT ( Devlin et al , 2019 ) . 2 Formally , for an input sequence w 1 , w 2 , . . . , w n with length n , we insert a special token BOS at the beginning of the sequence . For clarity , we omit the detailed transformations ( Vaswani et al , 2017 ) and denote the final output from our sequence encoder as { h 0 , h 1 , . . . , h n } R d , where h 0 corresponds the special token BOS and serves as an overall rep - resentation while others are considered as contextualized word representations . Note that the sequence encoder only needs to be invoked once , and the produced text memories are used for the whole parsing procedure .
We use a similar idea in Cai and Lam ( 2019 ) to encode the incrementally expanding graph . Specifically , a graph is simply treated as a sequence of nodes ( concepts ) in the chronological order of when they are inserted into the graph . We employ multi - layer Transformer architecture with masked self - attention and source - attention , which only allows each position in the node sequence to attend to all positions up to and including that position , and every position in the node sequence to attend over all positions in the input sequence . 3 While this design allows for significantly more parallelization during training and computation - saving incrementality during testing , 4 it inherently neglects the edge information . We attempted to alleviate this problem by incorporating the idea of Strubell et al ( 2018 ) that applies auxiliary supervision at attention heads to encourage them to attend to each node 's parents in the AMR graph . However , we did not see performance improvement . We attribute the failure to the fact that the neural attention mechanisms on their own are already capable of learning to attend to useful graph elements , and the auxiliary supervision is likely to disturb the ultimate parsing goal . Consequently , for the current graph G with m nodes , we take its output concept sequence c 1 , c 2 , . . . , c m as input . Similar to the sequence encoder , we insert a special token BOG at the beginning of the concept sequence . Each concept is firstly transformed into the concatenation of feature vector learned by a char - CNN and randomly initialized embedding . Then , a multi - layer Transformer encoder with masked self - attention and sourceattention is applied , resulting in vector representations { s 0 , s 1 , . . . , s m } R d , where s 0 represents the special concept BOG and serves as a dummy node while others are considered as contextualized node representations .
At each sequence reasoning step t , the concept solver receives a state vector y t that carries the latest graph decision and the input sequence memories h 1 , . . . , h n from the sequence encoder , and aims to locate the proper parts in the input sequence to abstract and generate a new concept . We employ the scaled dot - product attention proposed in Vaswani et al ( 2017 ) to solve this problem . Concretely , we first calculate an attention distribution over all input tokens : α t = softmax ( ( W Q y t ) T W K h 1 : n √ d k ) , where { W Q , W K } R d k ×d denote learnable linear projections that transform the input vectors into the query and key subspace respectively , and d k represents the dimensionality of the subspace . The attention weights α t R n provide a soft alignment between the new concept and the tokens in the input sequence . We then compute the probability distribution of the new concept label through a hybrid of three channels . First , α t is fed through an MLP and softmax to obtain a probability distribution over a pre - defined vocabulary : MLP ( α t ) = ( W V h 1 : n ) α t + y t ( 1 ) P ( vocab ) = softmax ( W ( vocab ) MLP ( α t ) + b ( vocab ) ) , where W V R d×d denotes the learnable linear projection that transforms the text memories into the value subspace , and the value vectors are averaged according to α t for concept label prediction . Second , the attention weights α t directly serve as a copy mechanism ( Gu et al , 2016 ; See et al , 2017 ) , i , e. , the probabilities of copying a token lemma from the input text as a node label . Third , to address the attribute values such as person names or numerical strings , we also use α t for another copy mechanism that directly copies the original strings of input tokens . The above three channels are combined via a soft switch to control the production of the concept label from different sources : [ p 0 , p 1 , p 2 ] = softmax ( W ( switch ) MLP ( α t ) ) , where MLP is the same as in Eq . 1 , and p 0 , p 1 and p 2 are the probabilities of three prediction channels respectively . Hence , the final prediction probability of a concept c is given by : P ( c ) = p 0 P ( vocab ) ( c ) + p 1 ( i L ( c ) α t [ i ] ) + p 2 ( i T ( c ) α t [ i ] ) , where [ i ] indexes the i - th element and L ( c ) and T ( c ) are index sets of lemmas and tokens respectively that have the surface form as c.
At each graph reasoning step t , the relation solver receives a state vector x t that carries the latest concept decision and the output graph memories s 0 , s 1 , . . . , s m from the graph encoder , and aims to point out the nodes in the current graph that have an immediate relation to the new concept ( source nodes ) and generate corresponding edges . Similar to Cai and Lam ( 2019 ) ; Zhang et al ( 2019b ) , we factorize the task as two stages : First , a relation identification module points to some preceding nodes as source nodes ; Then , the relation classification module predicts the relation type between the new concept and predicted source nodes . We leave the latter to be determined after iterative inference . AMR is a rooted , directed , and acyclic graph . The reason for AMR being a graph instead of a tree is that it allows reentrancies where a concept participates in multiple semantic relations with different semantic roles . Following Cai and Lam ( 2019 ) , we use multi - head attention for a more compact parsing procedure where multiple source nodes are simultaneously determined . 5 Formally , our relation identification module employs H different attention heads , for each head h , we calculate an attention distribution over all existing node ( including the dummy node s 0 ) : β h t = softmax ( ( W Q h x t ) T W K h s 0 : m √ d k ) . Then , we take the maximum over different heads as the final edge probabilities : β t [ i ] = H max h=1 β h t [ i ] . Therefore , different heads may points to different nodes at the same time . Intuitively , each head represents a distinct relation detector for a particular set of relation types . For each attention head , it will point to a source node if certain relations exist between the new node and the existing graph , otherwise it will point to the dummy node . An example with four attention heads and three existing nodes ( excluding the dummy node ) is illustrated in Figure 3 .
As described above , the concept solver and the relation solver are conceptually two attention mechanisms over the sequence and graph respectively , addressing the concept prediction and relation prediction separately . The key is to pass the decisions between the solvers so that they can examine each other 's answer and make harmonious decisions . Specifically , at each spanning step i , we start the iterative inference by setting x 0 = h 0 and solving f ( G i , x 0 ) . After the t - th graph reasoning , we compute the state vector y t , which will be handed over to the concept solver as g ( W , y t ) , as : y t = FFN ( y ) ( x t + ( W V h 1 : n ) α t ) , where FFN ( y ) is a feed - forward network and W V projects text memories into a value space . Similarly , after the t - th sequence reasoning , we update the state vector from y t to x t+1 as : x t+1 = FFN ( x ) ( y t + H h=1 ( W V h s 0 : n ) β h t ) , where FFN ( x ) is a feed - forward network and W V h projects graph memories into a value space for each head h. After N steps of iterative inference , i , e. , x 0 f ( G i , x 0 ) y 1 g ( W , y 1 ) x 1 f ( G i , x N −1 ) y N g ( W , y N ) x N , we finally employ a deep biaffine classifier ( Dozat and Manning , 2016 ) for edge label prediction . The Algorithm 1 AMR Parsing via Graph Sequence Iterative Inference Input : the input sentence W = ( w 1 , w 2 , . . . , w n ) Output : the corresponding AMR graph G // compute text memories 1 : h 0 , h 1 , . . . , h n = SequenceEncoder ( ( BOS , w 1 , . . . , w n ) ) // initialize graph 2 : G 0 = ( nodes= { BOG } , edges= ) // start graph expansions 3 : i = 0 4 : while True do 5 : s 0 , . . . , s i = GraphEncoder ( G i ) // the graph memories can be computed * incrementally * 6 : x 0 = h 0 // iterative inference 7 : for t 1 to N do 8 : y t = f ( G i , x t−1 ) // Seq . Graph 9 : x t = g ( W , y t ) // Graph Seq . i = i + 1 16 : end while 17 : return G i classifier uses a biaffine function to score each label , given the final concept representation x N and the node vector s 1 : m as input . The resulted concept , edge , and edge label predictions will added to the new graph G i+1 if the concept prediction is not EOG , a special concept that we add for indicating termination . Otherwise , the whole parsing process is terminated and the current graph is returned as final result . The complete parsing process adopting the iterative inference is described in Algorithm 1 .
Our model is trained with the standard maximum likelihood estimate . The optimization objective is to maximize the sum of the decomposed step - wise log - likelihood , where each is the sum of concept , edge , and edge label probabilities . To facilitate training , we create a reference generation order of nodes by running a breadth - first - traversal over target AMR graphs , as it is cognitively appealing ( core - semantic - first principle , Cai and Lam , 2019 ) and the effectiveness of pre - order traversal is also empirically verified by Zhang et al ( 2019a ) in a depth - first setting . For the generation order for sibling nodes , we adopt the uniformly random order and the deterministic order sorted by the relation frequency in a 1 : 1 ratio at first then change to the deterministic order only in the final training steps . We empirically find that the deterministic - afterrandom strategy slightly improves performance . During testing , our model searches for the best output graph through beam search based on the log - likelihood at each spanning step . The time complexity of our model is O ( k | V | ) , where k is the beam size , and | V | is the number of nodes .
Datasets Our evaluation is conducted on two AMR public releases : AMR 2.0 ( LDC0217T10 ) and AMR 1.0 ( LDC2014T12 ) . AMR 2.0 is the latest and largest AMR sembank that was extensively used in recent works . AMR 1.0 shares the same development and test set with AMR , while the size of its training set is only about one - third of AMR 2.0 , making it a good testbed to evaluate our model 's sensitivity for data size . 6 Implementation Details We use Stanford CoreNLP ( Manning et al , 2014 ) for tokenization , lemmatization , part - of - speech , and named entity tagging . The hyper - parameters of our models are chosen on the development set of AMR 2.0 . Without explicit specification , we perform N = 4 steps of iterative inference . Other hyper - parameter settings can be found in the Appendix . Our models are trained using ADAM ( Kingma and Ba , 2014 ) for up to 60 K steps ( first 50 K with the random sibling order and last 10 K with deterministic order ) , with early stopping based on development set performance . We fix BERT parameters similar to Zhang et al ( 2019a , b ) due to the GPU memory limit . During testing , we use a beam size of 8 for the highest - scored graph approximation . 7 AMR Pre - and Post - processing We remove senses as done in Lyu and Titov ( 2018 ) ; Zhang et al ( 2019a , b ) and simply assign the most frequent sense for nodes in post - processing . Notably , most existing methods including the state - the - ofart parsers ( Zhang et al , 2019a , b ; Lyu and Titov , 2018 ; Guo and Lu , 2018 , inter alia ) often rely on heavy graph re - categorization for reducing the complexity and sparsity of the original AMR graphs . For graph re - categorization , specific subgraphs of AMR are grouped together and assigned to a single node with a new compound category , which usually involves non - trivial expert - level manual efforts for hand - crafting rules . We follow the exactly same pre - and post - processing steps of those of Zhang et al ( 2019a , b ) for graph re - categorization . More details can be found in the Appendix . Ablated Models As pointed out by Cai and Lam ( 2019 ) , the precise set of graph re - categorization rules differs among different works , making it difficult to distinguish the performance improvement from model optimization and carefully designed rules . In addition , only recent works ( Zhang et al , 2019a , b ; Lindemann et al , 2019 ; Naseem et al , 2019 ) have started to utilize the large - scale pretrained language model , BERT ( Devlin et al , 2019 ; Wolf et al , 2019 ) . Therefore , we also include ablated models for addressing two questions : ( 1 ) How dependent is our model on performance from handcrafted graph re - categorization rules ? ( 2 ) How much does BERT help ? We accordingly implement three ablated models by removing either one of them or removing both . The ablation study not only reveals the individual effect of two model components but also helps facilitate fair comparisons with prior works .
The performance of AMR parsing is conventionally evaluated by SMATCH ( F1 ) metric . The left block of Table 1 shows the SMATCH scores on the AMR 2.0 test set of our models against the previous best approaches and recent competitors . On AMR 2.0 , we outperform the latest push from Zhang et al ( 2019b ) by 3.2 % and , for the first time , obtain a parser with over 80 % SMATCH score . Note that even without BERT , our model still outperforms the previous state - of - the - art approaches using BERT ( Zhang et al , 2019b , a ) with 77.3 % . This is particularly remarkable since running BERT is computationally expensive . As shown in most models trained on AMR 2.0 . The even more substantial performance gain on the smaller dataset suggests that our method is both effective and dataefficient . Besides , again , our model without BERT already surpasses previous state - of - the - art results using BERT . For ablated models , it can be observed that our models yield the best results in all settings if there are any competitors , indicating BERT and graph re - categorization are not the exclusive key for our superior performance .
In order to investigate how our parser performs on individual sub - tasks , we also use the fine - grained evaluation tool ( Damonte et al , 2017 ) and compare to systems which reported these scores . 8 As shown in the right block of Table 1 , our best model obtains the highest scores on almost all sub - tasks . The improvements in all sub - tasks are consistent and uniform ( around 2%∼3 % ) compared to the previous state - of - the - art performance ( Zhang et al , 2019b ) , partly confirming that our model boosts performance via consolidated and harmonious decisions rather than fixing particular phenomena . By our ablation study , 8 We only list the results on AMR 2.0 since there are few results on AMR 1.0 to compare . it is worth noting that the NER scores are much lower when using graph re - categorization . This is because the rule - based system for NER in graph recategorization does not generalize well to unseen entities , which suggest a potential improvement by adapting better NER taggers .
Effect of Iterative Inference We then turn to study the effect of our key idea , namely , the iterative inference design . To this end , we run a set of experiments with different values of the number of the inference steps N . The results on AMR 2.0 are shown in Figure 4 ( solid line ) . As seen , the performance generally goes up when the number of inference steps increases . The difference is most noticeable between 1 ( no iterative reasoning is performed ) and 2 , while later improvements gradually diminish . One important point here is that the model size in terms of the number of parameters is constant regardless of the number of inference steps , making it different from general over - parameterized problems . For a closer study on the effect of the inference steps with respect to the lengths of input sentences , we group sentences into three classes by length and also show the individual results in Figure 4 ( dashed lines ) . As seen , the iterative inference helps more for longer sentences , which confirms our intuition that longer and more complex input needs more reasoning . Another interesting observation is that the performance on shorter sentences reaches the peaks earlier . This observation suggests that the number of inference steps can be adjusted according to the input sentence , which we leave as future work .
We are also interested in the effect of beam size during testing . Ideally , if a model is able to make accurate predictions in the first place , it should rely less on the search algorithm . We vary the beam size and plot the curve in Figure 6 . The results show that the performance generally gets better with larger beam sizes . However , a small beam size of 2 already gets the most of the credits , which suggests that our model is robust enough for time - stressing environments . Visualization We visualize the iterative reasoning process with a case study in Figure 5 . We illustrate the values of α t , β t as the iterative inference progresses . As seen , the parser makes mistakes in the first step , but gradually corrects its decisions and finally makes the right predictions . Later reasoning steps typically provide a sharper attention distribution than earlier steps , narrowing down the most likely answer with more confidence . Speed We also report the parsing speed of our non - optimized code : With BERT , the parsing speed of our system is about 300 tokens / s , while without BERT , it is about 330 tokens / s on a single Nvidia P4 GPU . The absolute speed depends on various implementation choices and hardware performance . In theory , the time complexity of our parsing algorithm is O ( kbn ) , where k is the number of iterative steps , b is beam size , and n is the graph size ( number of nodes ) respectively . It is important to note that our algorithm is linear in the graph size .
We presented the dual graph - sequence iterative inference method for AMR Parsing . Our method constructs an AMR graph incrementally in a nodeby - node fashion . Each spanning step is explicitly characterized as answering two questions : which parts of the sequence to abstract , and where in the graph to construct . We leverage the mutual causalities between the two and design an iterative inference algorithm . Our model significantly advances the state - of - the - art results on two AMR corpora . An interesting future work is to make the number of inference steps adaptive to input sentences . Also , the idea proposed in this paper may be applied to a broad range of structured prediction tasks ( not only restricted to other semantic parsing tasks ) where the complex output space can be divided into two interdependent parts with a similar iterative inference process to achieve harmonious predictions and better performance .
A Hyper - parameter Settings Table 3 lists the hyper - parameters used in our full models . Char - level CNNs and Transformer layers in the sentence encoder and the graph encoder share the same hyper - parameter settings . The BERT model ( Devlin et al , 2019 ) we used is the Huggingface 's implementation ( Wolf et al , 2019 ) ( bert - base - cased ) . To mitigate overfitting , we apply dropout ( Srivastava et al , 2014 ) with the drop rate 0.2 between different layers . We randomly mask ( replacing inputs with a special UNK token ) the input lemmas , POS tags , and NER tags with a rate of 0.33 . Parameter optimization is performed with the ADAM optimizer ( Kingma and Ba , 2014 ) with β 1 = 0.9 and β 2 = 0.999 . The learning rate schedule is similar to that in Vaswani et al ( 2017 ) , with warm - up steps being set to 2K. We use early stopping on the development set for choosing the best model .
We follow exactly the same pre - and postprocessing steps of those of Zhang et al ( 2019a , b ) for graph re - categorization . In preprocessing , we anonymize entities , remove wiki links and polarity attributes , and convert the resultant AMR graphs into a compact format by compressing certain subgraphs . In post - processing , we recover the original AMR format from the compact format , restore Wikipedia links using the DBpedia Spotlight API ( Daiber et al , 2013 ) , add polarity attributes based on rules observed from the training data . More details can be found in Zhang et al ( 2019a ) .
