Welcome to the first Workshop on Human - Computer Question Answering ( HCQA ) ! Question answering is a central task in natural language processing ( NLP ) . Unlike other NLP tasks , it also is easy for non - experts to understand when question answering systems perform well ( or fail ) . The goal of this workshop is to bring the community together to discuss the state of the art of question answering and interactively compete with top human trivia masters . This workshop highlights question answering on the real - world task of quiz bowl , a trivia game in which competitors are asked to identify entities such as battles , novels , and scientific terms . In quiz bowl , a moderator reads a paragraph - long question to two teams , and players are permitted to interrupt the moderator ( or " buzz in " ) with a guess if they feel confident . This setting is especially interesting because acquiring more features ( clues ) comes with an added cost ( the other team may buzz in before you ) . While computerized question answering systems have previously had success against humans , this workshop will be the first to pit different systems against each other and then have that winner face off against a top human team . Question answering is a task interesting to both academia and industry . This workshop brings people from both sides to discuss recent progress in QA . We will have a presentation from the IBM Watson team talking about their new Watson Discovery Advisor and the challenges of QA in the industrial setting . Peter Clark will talk about new types of question answering problems that he and his team are solving at the Allen Institute for AI . We also have Zhengdong Lu , Jason Weston , and Richard Socher talking about recent neural network approaches to QA . This year we have nine papers covering a variety of approaches to QA , including neural networks , crowdsourcing , knowledge graph search , and paraphrasing . Besides common QA tasks such as machine comprehension , ( open - domain ) factoid QA , we are also excited to see new topics on error analysis of QA systems by crowdsourcing and alignment between text description and paintings for art questions . At the end of the workshop , we will have a dual computer - human tournament to test entrants ' question answering systems against each other and against the top human trivia masters . Enjoy the match ! Finally , we invite you to enjoy this volume and we are looking forward to seeing you in San Diego !
