Overview of Open - Source Morphology Development for the Komi - Zyrian Language :
Past and Future
This study describes the on - going development of the finite - state description for an endangered minority language , Komi - Zyrian .
This work is located in the context where large written and spoken language corpora are available , which creates a set of unique challenges that have to be , and can be , addressed .
We describe how we have designed the transducer so that it can benefit from existing open - source infrastructures and therefore be as reusable as possible .
Тайӧ гижӧдын сёрни мунӧ канму коми кыв технология йылысь , кӧні сетӧмаӧсь коми морфологиялы помысь - помӧдз автомат .
Уджыс сэтшӧм контекстын , кӧні ыджыд гижан да сёрнисикас корпусъяс
босьтанног .
Та вӧсна чужӧны торйӧн юалӧмъяс , кодлы выль воча кывъяс коланаӧсь .
Петкӧдлам , мый эм кыдзи аддзыны колана воча кывъяс .
Серпасалам анализаторавтоматлысь сӧвмӧдӧм процесс да вӧзйӧмным ӧтлаӧдны анализаторсӧ паськыдджык восся кодъяса ӧтувтечасӧинфраструктураӧ , медым уджыс уналаздоръясын вӧдитчыны .
This study discusses open - source morphology development , which has greatly benefited from opensource projects most notably achievements attributed to the GiellaLT infrastructure ( Moshagen et al , 2014 ) , i.e. Giellatekno & Divvun at the Norwegian Arctic University in Tromsø , Norway .
Specifically we discuss the infrastructure for the Komi - Zyrian language .
We describe the work done up until now , and delineate some of the tasks we deem necessary in the future .
There are features of Komi morphosyntax that need special attention , in regard to both of their linguistic and computational descriptions .
This contribution aims to bring that discussion forward , and delineate the current status of the work .
Rueter ( 2000 ) describes the initial creation of the transducer , and the work discussed here continues that same undertaking , essentially providing an update of the changes done in the last decade , and a plan for the future .
The transducer is available on GitHub for Komi - Zyrian.¹
The nightly builds are available through a Python library called Ural - icNLP² ( Hämäläinen , 2019 ) .
Easy and efficient access to the traducers and their lexical materials has been the main designing principle , and we consider current approach very successful . 
Komi - Zyrian has a growing representation in online corpora .
There is a large written corpus that is accessible online³ ; it has been created by FU - Lab in Syktyvkar .
The Giellatekno infrastructure provides a Korp implementation ( Ahlberg et al , 2013 ) hosting numerous Uralic Wikipedia corpora , among which Komi can also be found⁴. At the Language Bank of Finland , parallel Bible corpora are available with possibilities for comparing different translations ( Rueter and Axelson , 2020 ) .
While literary language often reflects astute professional language users , social media provides written language that may be more closely related to the vernacular , this type of Komi is found with minority languages of the adjacent Volga - Kama region⁵ and as described in Arkhangelskiy ( 2019 ) .
In a simi - lar vein , a Spoken Komi corpus containing mainly Izhma dialect has been created in a Kone Foundation funded research project ( Blokland et al , 2014 ( Blokland et al , - 2016 , and it is also available online for community and research access.⁶ Written and spoken language corpora are different in many ways , but together they form a large and representative description of the Komi language .
Thereby they both need to be accounted for when the transducer is further developed .
Electronic corpora have an important role in the research of Komi in general , and their significance most certainly will only grow when access and practices improve ( for discussion about the use of electronic corpora , see Федина , 2019 ; Чупров , 2018 ; Блокланд et al , 2014 ) . 
There are also numerous dialect materials in Komi , and their progressing digitization gives us access to an increasing number of materials hitherto unavailable in digital format .
When this process advances and we inevitably encounter more dialectal texts , we must also consider wider dialectal features of Komi when we develop the transducer . 
Additionally , as there are two main Komi varieties with written standards and their dialects , Zyrian and Permyak , we must acknowledge that infrastructures for these languages can not be developed in isolation , but rather that both language variants must be taken into consideration in different ways ( Rueter et al , 2020c ) .
At the same time , the respective written standards have needs for their own tools and resources that are still independent , so the whole question of how to best handle pluricentric language varieties such as Komi still needs additional planning . 
The study is structured so that we first describe the work that has been done for modeling the morphosyntax of the Komi - Zyrian language .
Then we discuss individual features and their role in the description , and aim to illustrate the types of challenges they present .
As we believe that computational modeling of the language is directly connected to the linguistic description itself , we also discuss different phenomena and the ways our description is directly connected to the grammar .
The FST described here is primarily built by Jack Rueter , beginning with work in the 1990s .
The Komi - Zyrian finite - state description began with ⁶http://videocorpora.ru a trilingual glossary Ӧшкамӧшка ичӧт кыввор , комиа - англискӧя - финскӧя ( Rueter , 1995 ) , designed for use by Finnish and English speaking students of Komi , without previous knowledge of Russian , to accompany the коми кыв ' Komi language ' reader ( Цыпанов , 1992 ) , used for instruction in the Universities of Helsinki and Turku .
Later , with a scholarship from the Kordelin Foundation , this vocabulary was augmented .
First , the extension was intended to complement a second Komi reader by Манова ( 1994 ) , and then to outline the Komi stem vocabulary of the Komi - Russian dictionary by Лыткин and Тимушев ( 1961 ) .
A large portion of the work done with this dictionary was only possible with the painstaking hours spent by Vera Chernykh .
Thus , the approximately 3000 - word glossary providing the lexical base for a finite - state description of Komi - Zyrian , presented at Permistika 6 at the Udmurt State University in Izhevsk , 1996 ( published in Rueter , 2000 , was extended to over 6000 lexical entries . 
In 2004 Trond Trosterud invited Rueter to Tromsø to learn more about the Xerox Finite - state technology ( XFST ) being implemented at Giellatekno as described in ( Trosterud , 2004 ) and for Komi in ( Trosterud , 2004b ) .
Here the Komi transducer and lexicon were to be developed further than before , and to be connected to an infrastructure that was compatible with a larger array of languages . 
To summarise some of the new improvements , there were no longer problems with Cyrillic letters requiring representation as conversions from Latin letters .
It was now possible to write rules directly addressing elements of the Komi orthography .
This direct use of the vernacular in the code may have , in fact , contributed to the belief of the developer that only the normative language needed description .
( It was not until many years later that work with other under - resourced languages , such as Mansi ( 2015present ) , Olonets - Karelian ( 2013 - present ) , Skolt Saami ( 2015 and Võro ( 2014 - present ) , made it obvious that non - standard words also require description . )
One of the most important items at this point was that the lexicon and morphology were open - source .
This meant , in turn , that Komi could be worked on by others and tested in projects .
Here , Komi was ideal .
The morphology is very concatenative , and the orthography contains only two more letters than the Russian , i.e. problems with some rarer Cyrillic letters could be evaluated and solved . 
In 2012 - 2016 Paula Kokkonen worked in conjunction with one of Rueter 's projects , where she improved the Finnish translations and inspected the English translations for Komi lexemes .
This work significantly increased the coverage of Finnish translations in the multilingual dictionary that was created in this point . 
During the period 2012 - 2021 , FU - Lab and Giellatekno collaboration has featured active FST development , including multiple use , and especially improvement in the disambiguation rules and lexical coverage .
Morphological analysis is a central component in a modern corpus , and issues such as ambiguity are also always present when FST is used in this context ( Ӧньӧ Лав , 2015 , 140 ) .
Collaboration may also lead to unforeseeable development .
When two infrastructures are aligned , there are often competing priorities .
This has also been the case here , i.e. whereas FU - Lab has demonstrated immediate interest in the facilitation of writing , spell checking , dictionaries and corpora for the language community , Giellatekno has pushed for research - related morphological description , analysis and lexica for the research community , but which can , in fact , later be applied to the production of spell checking and other derivative tools .
This divergence in priority lead to some duplicate work in morphology . 
Helsinki Finite - State Technology ( HFST )
( Lindén et al , 2013 ) at Giellatekno with multi - use priorities was pitted against the quick but single - use Hunspell strategies practiced at FU - Lab .
Thus , some of the technical complexities on the Giellatekno side had to be simplified so that one set of lexica might be shared .
Giellatekno had plenty to gain from the lexical work done at FU - Lab , on the one hand , but it was not able to capitalize on its own sophisticated two - level description as a result of it , on the other .
As regards morphophonological descriptions , stem - final variation had to be moved one step away from the initial LEMMA + COLON + STEM + CONTINUATIONLEXICON declaration in the code . 
While Jack Rueter has often quickly followed the suggestion of XML maintenance of lexical materials , it has turned out that collaboration pulls away from this write - only - once policy .
The more people there are working with one data set , the more documentation required for maintaining mutual working principles .
Simple and complex XML systems alike require a working front - end , otherwise , as has been the case here , the workers opt out of the XML database and end up working more on materials that can not be readily integrated back into the system . 
At the moment the XML transformation is not being used in FST development .
Instead , other solutions for database implementation are being worked on , see Alnajjar et al ( 2020a ) ; .
Only time will reveal which directions of development have contributed the most to the infrastructure . 
In 2018 - 2021 , Niko Partanen has been improving the dialectal lexicon coverage of the transducer while conducting his doctoral studies in Komi dialectology .
In connection to this work , in 2020 - 2021 , Jack Rueter has improved the coverage of dialectal morphology , specifically taking into account the phenomena found in the Izhma dialect .
This work by both of them was done within a Kone Foundation funded research project Language Documentation Meets Language Technology :
The Next Step in the Description of Komi .
The work shows that it is a feasible strategy to improve the analyser so that the work aligns with specific goals and needs of an individual project or dataset .
It does create an imbalance in to which degree different dialects are represented , but for a language as large as Komi doing everything at the same time is not possible either .
Mika Hämäläinen 's role has been central in building more widely accessible computational infrastructure to access these transducers ( Hämäläinen , 2019 ) .
In the recent work to create an online editing platform that would allow improved access to the lexical materials , Khalid Alnajjar has been in an irreplaceable position ( Alnajjar et al , 2020a ) .
This all shows that managing a transducer for a language like Komi is a multi - partnered operation that calls for wide collaboration between different groups and even infrastructures .
Since 2017 , work has been conducted within the Universal Dependencies project to better cover Komi varieties , most recently ( Zeman et al , 2021 ) , see also Nivre et al ( 2020 ) .
There are two Zyrian treebanks ( Partanen et al , 2018 ) , and work with Permyak progresses at many levels ( Rueter et al , 2020c ) .
Especially in the initial phase of the treebank , building the finite - state descriptions is in a pivotal role , and maintaining interoperability between the FST and treebank development allows very efficient use of both systems .
A similar approach has also been systematically used for other languages , such as Karelian ( Pirinen , 2019a ) and both Mordvinic languages .
Indeed , managing systematic and comparable use of tags and conventions across languages is one of the primary concerns in our work as well , and there have been specific surveys that try to track the progress of different Uralic treebanks ( Rueter and Partanen , 2019 ) .
We can also mention that the practices described here have also be adopted for the development of Amazon minority language description for Apurinã in Helsinki - Belém .
In the approach discussed here , this harmonization starts at the transducer level and the documentation therein . 
In the context of concrete applications of the Komi FST , we can highlight work by Gerstenberger et al ( 2017 ) , where the analyser was integrated into the popular multimedia annotation software ELAN .
In addition , the most significant Komi online resource , the National Komi Corpus , contains annotations done with the transducer⁷. 
Next we describe some of the challenges and important phenomena that have been addressed in various ways when creating the Komi analyser .
Komi regular morphology affects word forms in several parts of speech .
In addition to verbal conjugation and nominal declension , there is an abundance of regular morpheme - sememe alignment in derivation .
Whereas verbal conjugation is , indeed , limited to the indicative ( in four synthetic tenses ) and imperative moods , the complex noun - phrase head is associated with the categories of number ( singular and plural ) , possessive marking for three persons and two numbers as well as nearly thirty syntactic entity markers or cases .
Regular derivation can be observed in aspect , mediopassive and causative marking of verbs , as well as comparative and diminutive marking of nominals .
There is a plethora of single - syllable nouns and derivational suffixes , and , at times , the boundary between compounding and derivation becomes obscure .
The Komi - Zyrian language is known to display a typologically common l - vocalization , which is a process where a lateral approximant is replaced by a labiodental fricative /v/ or labiodental approximant /ʋ/.
In the Komi grammaticography this is known as l / v variation .
Another comparable stem - alterating ⁷http://komicorpora.ru phenomena are the paragogic consonants in some word stems .
These phenomena can be dealt with in much the same way , as they share a common trigger .
Words with l / v or paragogic consonant variation in their stems can be identified on the basis of whether the stem is followed by an vowel - initial suffix , on the one hand , or a consonant - initial suffix ( alternatively word boundary ) , on the other . 
In the description of these words it has been suggested that erroneous forms be specifically identified .
Special tags indicating the absence of paragogic consonants or substandard realization of the stem - final l / v have been implemented for Komi - Zyrian and reflect parallel tags previously implemented in the FST descriptions of other languages in the GiellaLT infrastructure , Northern and Skolt Saami , Erzya , Moksha , Võro to mention a few . 
When we include more dialectal materials in the description , we also have to account for processes where l - vocalization triggers vowel lengthening .
There are also secondary types of l - vocalization , influencing stems ending in the sequence / - el/ , and triggering change / - ej/.
Currently this is treated at the lemma level , so that the non - standard forms are connected to the standard lemmas , with an additional tag indicating dialectal form or error .
Even the dialectal variants where neither types of the variation are met are exceptions from the point of view of the standard language .
We have devised a tagging system for various subtypes , but the exact implementation is still being designed and planned further .
We discuss in Section 4.2 related challenges in more detail .
As mentioned above , there are nearly thirty syntactic entity markers or cases associated with complex noun phrases .
The distinction drawn here of cases versus derivations lies in the complexity of the noun phrase , i.e. compatibility with the category of number or presence of modifiers has been underlined as a possible boundary ( see Rueter , 2010 , 74 - 75 ; cf .
Ylikoski ( 2020 ) ) .
If a denominal adverbial derivation does not take adjectival or determiner modifiers , there is no syntactic need to distinguish it from other opaque adverbials .
On the contrary , it may be noted , syntactic elements that can take this kind of modifiers should be classified according to their syntactic merits .
( The term CASE should not be reguarded as a title of estate but as a useful indication of syntactic class membership . ) 
Here , we will further note that according to the SIL Glossary of Linguistic Terms⁸ case is defined as a grammatical category determined by the syntactic or semantic function of a noun or pronoun .
If we apply this to a regular morphological description of the Komi languages , we may choose to distinguish between derivational endings applied to simple NP heads and inflectional endings applied to complex NP heads .
By distinguishing these two varieties of inflection , we can arrive at a syntactic criterion for classifying different types of inflection , whereas the complex NP , which also takes marking for number , might be readily integrated into the enumeration of nominal modifiers , i.e. cases . 
For nearly one and a half centuries , the 16 and 1 dependent cases as defined by Castrén ( 1844 ) have represented the canonical cases addressed in grammars of the Komi - Zyrian language .
The seventeenth case , the comitative , is addressed as a postposition , but all examples of it show it as integrated morphology in the noun .
Некрасова
( 2000 )
( ' The Modern Komi Language ' , ÖKK ) , published in 2000 broke with this tradition by including a set of compounded cases ( seven ) . 
The 26 cases shown by the latest Komi grammar , may be further augmented to 29 by introducing the PROPRIETIVE , ABESSIVE and LOCATIVE cases , in - a , тӧм and - са , respectively .
The TEMPORAL in - ся might , as a function , be simply attributed to the already existing COMPARATIVE case .
Similar questions of case definition have been treated by one of the authors , Rueter ( 2010 ) , where he regards syntactic entity complexity as sufficient grounds for casehood , ( see also Ylikoski , 2020 ) .
Tauli ( 1956 ) , it should be noted , provides numerous references to researchers dealing with affixes , inclusive derivation and case , there does not seem to be any standards for distinction between case and derivation .
The Komi - Zyrian PROPRIETIVE refered to also as a nomen possessoris suffix а , which occurs as a " comitative " ( Tauli , 1956 ) , provides a challenge for the those wishing to distinguish Kom proprietive - а , comitative - кӧд and instrumental - ӧн . 
Not unlike the PROPRIETIVE , the ABESSIVE , LOCA - TIVE and even the temporal function of the COMPAR - ATIVE case are almost entirely limited in use to the adnominal range .
The ABESSIVE has a predicative counterpart in the CARATIVE - тӧг , while the LOCA - TIVE has a predicative counterpart in the INESSIVEын .
Perhaps this range distinction has also played ⁸https://glossary.sil.org/term/case a part so - called case classification .
The adnominal TEMPORAL marker , however , seems to have no morphological counterpart for use in the predicative .
One of the dilemmas in Komi morphosyntax is where to introduce the object of a sentence .
Actual non - ambiguous accusative forms are attested for pronouns and other NP heads , but the accusative is not the only case used for indicating the object , the ZERO marker strategy is also used for this purpose .
Hence , one might readily speak of object marking with the nominative . 
Canonic practice in the Komi grammaticography has been to include the nominative , ZERO form , as an additional accusative case form .
If we introduce ZERO as an accusative case marker as well , we , essentially , be introducing ambiguity on the text on the analysis level . 
Komi is known for its use of singular possessive suffixes in the accusative for marking different degrees of identifiability ; zero , i.e. nominative marking , is also a possibility .
When we also have the full syntactic dependency tree , the ambiguity between nominatives and unmarked accusative is resolved , as the object relation is unambiguously marked and connected to the root verb .
The current solution in the morphological modeling has been to resolve all unmarked wordforms as nominatives , and to leave the nominative - accusative distinction into a later step of the analysis .
None the less , we recognize this is only one of the various ways this can be analysed , and when the full analysis comes , we essentially have all the information to transform the material to match various existing traditions .
This section will investigate the ordering of morphological constituents typically associated with nominals and convey meaning associated with the categories of number , possession and case . 
In initial collaboration with FU - Lab , a singular set of morpheme ordering was adopted for each individual combination of possessor & case marking .
Hence , it was determined that the word form батьӧйлӧн « бать - ӧй - лӧн ' father . N - PxSg1 - Gen ' featuring the ӧй marking for the first person singular possessor could be distinguished from the possessive suffix ым in гортӧдзым « горт - ӧдз - ым ' home .
N - Ter - PxSg1 ' on the basis of complementary distribution , i.e. there was no need to label the possessive suffixes as separate entities . 
In later development , however , a different issue was observed in which case and possessive formatives might show varied ordering .
Although this phenomenon is not as prevalent as in the Meadow and Eastern Mari language ( cf . Luutonen ( 1997 ) ) , it did merit recognition and distinction for the facilitation of further resource . 
The distinguishing tags strategy implemented for Meadow Mari and Hill Mari has been adapted for use with Komi - Zyrian with two tags .
One tag indicates segment ordering where the possessive marker precedes the case marker ( + So / PC ) , and the other indicates the case marker precedes the possessive marker ( + So / CP ) , e.g. кӧзяиныслань кӧзяиныс - лань ' owner .
N - PxSg3 - Apr ' кӧзяинланьыс кӧзяин - лань - ыс ' owner .
N - Apr - PxSg3 ' . 
In addition to this relatively infrequent type of ordering variation of cases versus possessive suffixes , there also appears to be use of the accusative possessive suffix markers for second - тӧ and third - сӧ person on noun and adjective phrase heads , where the accusative case would not be syntactically compatible .
In fact , these same endings are found in connection with other parts of speech as well .
It has been maintained that these morphological constituents convey discourse meaning , but there is still much to investigate and establishing tagging practices for these features will contribute to better research materials in the future .
In Komi , numerals are regularly derived to form subgroups in cardinals ZERO , ordinals - ӧд , distributives - ӧн , iteratives - ысь , ordinal iteratives - ӧдысь and distributional iteratives - ысьӧн ( Rueter et al , 2020c ) .
As such , it is often novel or even confounding that we find the syntactic adverbial role found across languages is attributed to a regularly derived adverb кыкысь ' twice ' on the Komi side , on the one hand , and a noun phrase fifty times ' ветымынысь ' , on the other . 
Like other adnominal modifiers , it should be noted , numerals may also be promoted to NP head position in instances of contextually motivated ellipsis .
We have recently moved into primarily data - driven development practice for Komi , where new lexicon and morphology is described primarily based on gaps we find through analysed language materi - als .
At the same time we have developed further tests to check the validity of the output , and in the long term these approaches naturally will live on in parallel .
Needless to say , using more natural texts has also forced us to take into account more spoken language and dialect phenomena , which moves the work into quite new directions , which we have already discussed partially above . 
After reporting our experiments with the written corpus data , we discuss our plan to integrate the dialectal materials and tags better to the currently discussed Komi analyser .
From a corpus of 1 , 415 , 210 unique word forms ( 2020 - 11 - 11 ) 520 , 180 were not recognized by the analyzer .
Aside from the Russian words , apparently from quoted text , and words written entirely in upper case , the most frequent words not to be recognized by the FST seem to all involve hyphens .
The use of hyphenation is best illiustrated by Рытыв - Войвыв the preposed modifier for direction ' north northwest ' ( 1377 times ) , a drawn out pronunciation Но - о ' Well - l ' ( 1177 times ) , and the orthographic practice of adding - мӧд ' another ' in здук - мӧд ' yet another moment ' ( 942 times ) . 
Since over a third of the unique word forms had gone unrecognized , a strategy was developed for improving the model .
This would be carried out for nominals initially and subsequently verbs .
As described below , a very large portion of unrecognized forms involved various plurals .
How they were dealt with is described below , as it illustrates well the challenges we have encountered and their possible solutions . 
In the Komi - Zyrian morphology there are two separate plural markers associated with nominal declension .
One is the NP plural marker яс and the other is the copula complement plural marker ӧсь .
20604 unrecognized word forms ended in яс , and in 11441 of these the plural marker was preceded by a Cyrillic hard sign ъ .
This number was was further delimited by removing all instances of hyphenation and v followed by Cyrillic hard sign and wordfinal яс .
Where the hyphen may have meant compound words for simple hyphenation in the text , the removal of v meant we could automatically avoid the problem of determining whether the word stem contained the notorious l / v variation or not .
Our resulting figure was 8766 . 
After entering 15 , 101 new stems the number of unrecognized unique word forms dropped to 422 , 227 , which was nearly a nineteen per cent improvement over the previous 520 , 180 .
In the future we plan to go further through the frequency list of unknown word forms and improve the analyzer so that individual yet frequent phenomena is adequately described and addressed .
Currently the FST is designed so that dialectal elements are recognized , but they come with an additional error or dialect tag which prevents them being suggested in tools such as spellcheckers .
We have also experimented with approaches where Zyrian , Permyak and Russian analysers are run on top of one another , so that unknown forms may be captured by one of the systems with appropriate language tags returned .
Since some Zyrian dialectal phenomena is also present in Permyak standard language , already this solution helps to improve the coverage . 
Eventually , however , we consider it important that the analyser could capture nuances of individual dialects .
In principle this could be accompanied with dialect specific tags , but this approach is also problematic .
Many of the features are not strictly found in singular dialects , but cover larger regions .
At the same time the speech of any individual is not necessarily limited to any specific variety .
Moreover , we believe that further research in Komi dialect isoglosses may be necessary to exactly point for each feature where they definitely occur .
Some rough areal boundaries , however , are well known and clear cut , which would make some areal tags potentially useful . 
Features that currently are not included are especially those found from southern and eastern Zyrian dialects , mainly because nobody has attempted to use an FST with those varieties yet .
We must also recognize that Permyak and Zyrian dialects overlap in their features in various ways , and especially the creation of infrastructure that handless all Komi varieties and both standards remains a challenge .
In recent years many neural network based approaches have been becoming popular and also shown good results .
In a recent study by Pirinen ( 2019b ) the neural models were better than the traditional rule - based approaches for Finnish .
Our team is always following new developments of the field , but we also believe that different approaches can be successfully combined . 
We already see studies emerging where a neural network has been used to learn to generate predictions from an FST .
Their research is also used the Komi - Zyrian FST presented in this paper .
The results were promising and we are eager to see how this ideology of using neural networks and rule - based systems side by side rather than as competing systems plays out in the future .
For the NLP pipeline of Komi the most important new developments will be connected to improvements in the dependency parsing side of the analysis , ideally in connection to automatic and rule - based methods of disambiguation .
Komi Constraint Grammar has currently focused to disambiguation , and the tagging and parsing sections are largely missing .
It remains to be seen what kind of an approach will be the most successful here .
At the same time Komi Universal Dependencies treebanks have started to be large enough that their further modeling with deep learning starts to be an attractive and possibly fruitful task . 
Komi texts are also present in many different orthographies , and taking all of them into account is a large and important task ( Rueter and Ponomareva , 2019 ) .
Since the corpora of Latin Komi texts are also now available⁹ , the future for these lines of research is exciting and promising .
This also connects to various transcription systems used in linguistic publications and text collections : these materials should be republished in the contemporary orthography in order to make them maximally useful for the language communities themselves . 
Yet another future task is to provide access to the multilingual Komi lexicon the FST is based on in a form that is truly accessible and openly available .
One solution could be to use online dictionary editing platforms , which are strongly linked to the FST development work , and thereby benefit it directly ( Alnajjar et al , 2020b ) .
These lexicons have already been published in Zenodo ( Rueter et al , 2020b ) , and already their earliest version has been published in print ( Rueter , 1995 ) .
Thereby the work described here in various ways continues an already nological and practical changes that these decades have shown .
We believe this line of investigation of the Komi language will boldly continue the next 25 years , but also hope the reports of how the work progresses will become even more regularly . 
We also foresee that further development of the Komi FST will bring new tools to benefit both the public and research communities .
Such might be machine translation , on the one hand ( Tiedemann , 2021 ) , and translation studies , on the other ( cf .
Цыпанов , 2021 ) .
This , of course , does not close the circle , but merely the ever continuous spiral of development .
As described in the study above , this work on Komi has been funded by Alfred Kordelin Foundation and Kone Foundation . 
Matias Grioni , Loïc Grobol , Normunds Grūzītis , Bruno Guillaume , Céline Guillot - Barbance , Tunga Güngör , Nizar Habash , Hinrik Hafsteinsson , Jan Hajič , Jan Hajič jr . , Mika Hämäläinen , Linh Hà Mỹ , Na - Rae Han , Muhammad Yudistira Hanifmuti , Sam Hardwick , Kim Harris , Dag Haug , Johannes Heinecke , Oliver Hellwig , Felix Hennig , Barbora Hladká , Jaroslava Hlaváčová , Florinel Hociung
