An Expert Annotated Dataset for the Detection of Online Misogyny
Online misogyny is a pernicious social problem that risks making online platforms toxic and unwelcoming to women .
We present a new hierarchical taxonomy for online misogyny , as well as an expert labelled dataset to enable automatic classification of misogynistic content .
The dataset consists of 6 , 567 labels for Reddit posts and comments .
As previous research has found untrained crowdsourced annotators struggle with identifying misogyny , we hired and trained annotators and provided them with robust annotation guidelines .
We report baseline classification performance on the binary classification task , achieving accuracy of 0.93 and F1 of 0.43 .
The codebook and datasets are made freely available for future researchers .
Misogyny is a problem in many online spaces , making them less welcoming , safe , and accessible for women .
Women have been shown to be twice as likely as men to experience gender - based online harassment ( Duggan , 2017 ) .
This misogyny can inflict serious psychological harm on women and produce a ' silencing effect ' , whereby women selfcensor or withdraw from online spaces entirely , thus limiting their freedom of expression ( Mantilla , 2013 ; International , 2017 ) .
Tackling such content is increasingly a priority for social media platforms and civil society organisations . 
However , detecting online misogyny remains a difficult task ( Hewitt et al , 2016 ; Nozza et al , 2019 ) .
One problem is the lack of high - quality datasets to train machine learning models , which would enable the creation of efficient and scalable automated detection systems .
Previous research has primarily used Twitter data and there is a pressing need for other platforms to be researched Lynn et al ( 2019a ) .
Notably , de - spite social scientific studies that show online misogyny is pervasive on some Reddit communities , to date a training dataset for misogyny has not been created with Reddit data .
In this paper we seek to address the limitations of previous research by presenting a dataset of Reddit content with expert labels for misogyny that can be used to develop more accurate and nuanced classification models . 
Our contributions are four - fold .
First , we develop a detailed hierarchical taxonomy based on existing literature on online misogyny .
Second , we create and share a detailed codebook used to train annotators to identify different types of misogyny .
Third , we present a dataset of 6 , 383 entries from Reddit .
Fourth , we create baseline classification models based on these datasets .
All of the research artefacts are made freely available via a public repository for future researchers .
1
The dataset itself has several innovations which differentiate it from previous training datasets for misogyny .
First , we use chronological and structured conversation threads , which mean annotators take into account the previous context of each entry before labelling .
Second , we distinguish between conceptually distinct types of misogynistic abuse , including gendered personal attacks , use of misogynistic pejoratives , and derogatory and threatening language .
Third , we highlight the specific section of text , also known as a ' span ' , on which each label is based .
This helps differentiate between multiple labels on one piece of text .
Fourth , we use trained annotators , rather than crowd - sourced workers .
We also use facilitated meetings to decide the final labels rather than just a majority decision .
Both of these factors lead to a high - quality dataset .
Additionally , we provide a second dataset with the original labels made by annotators before the final labels were decided .
Most previous classification work on online misogyny has used data from Twitter ( Waseem and Hovy , 2016 ;
Jha and Mamidi , 2017 ) .
However , social scientific and ethnographic research shows that Reddit is increasingly home to numerous misogynistic communities .
Reddit is a social news website organised in to topic - based communities .
Each subreddit acts as a message board where users make posts and hold discussions in comment threads on those posts .
In recent years it has become a hub for anti - feminist activism online ( Massanari , 2017 ; Ging and Siapera , 2018 ) .
It is also home to many misogynistic communities , particularly those associated with the ' manosphere ' , a loosely connected set of communities which perpetuate traditional forms of misogyny and develop new types of misogynistic discourse which in turn spread to other online spaces ( Ging , 2017 ; Zuckerberg , 2018 ;
Ging et
al , 2019 ; Farrell et al , 2019 ; Ribeiro et al , 2020 ) .
Recent research suggests that the rate of misogynistic content in the Reddit manosphere is growing and such content is increasingly more violent ( Farrell et al , 2019 ) .
Waseem and Hovy ( 2016 ) provided a widelyused dataset for abusive language classification .
They used expert annotators to identify sexist and racist tweets based on a set of criteria drawn from critical race theory .
The tweets were initially labelled by the authors then reviewed by a third annotator .
The resulting dataset consists of 17k tweets , of which 20 % are labelled as sexist .
However 85 % of the disagreements between annotators were over sexism labels , which shows that even experienced coders of abusive language can have difficultly identifying gendered abuse .
Jha and Mamidi ( 2017 ) extended on the Waseem and Hovy ( 2016 ) dataset to distinguish between between ' benevolent ' and ' hostile ' sexism ( Glick and Fiske , 1997 ) .
They classed all sexist labels in the previous dataset as ' Hostile ' and all non - sexist labels as ' Other ' .
They then augmented the dataset by collecting tweets using keyword sampling on benevolently sexist phrases ( e.g. ' smart for a girl ' ) and extracted those manually identified as ' benevolent sexism ' .
In the combined dataset of 10 , 095 unique tweets 712 were labelled as ' benevolent ' , 2 , 254 as ' hostile ' , and 7 , 129 as ' not sexist ' .
They thus found that in the data hostile sexism was more than three times as common as the benevolent form .
Their work highlights the need for greater attention to be placed on forms of ' subtle abuse ' , particularly for online misogyny ( Jurgens et al , 2019 ) .
developed a taxonomy with five categories of misogyny , drawn from the work of Poland ( 2016 ) :
Stereotype & Objectification , Dominance , Derailing , Sexual Harassment & Threats of Violence , Discredit .
They used a combination of expert and crowdsourced annotation to apply the taxonomy and present a dataset of 4 , 454 tweets with balanced levels of misogynistic and non - misogynistic content .
A shared task confirmed that the dataset could be used to distinguish misogynistic and non - misogynistic content with high accuracy , but performance was lower in differentiating between types of misogyny .
Lynn et al ( 2019b ) provide a dataset of 2k Urban Dictionary definitions of which half are labelled as misogynistic .
In Lynn et al ( 2019a ) they show that deep learning techniques had greater accuracy in detecting misogyny than conventional machine learning techniques .
We collected conversation threads from Reddit .
Given that a very small amount of content on social media is hateful , a key difficulty when creating datasets for annotation is collecting enough instances of the ' positive ' class to be useful for machine learning ( Schmidt and Wiegand , 2017 ; Fortuna and Nunes , 2018 ) .
However , sampling strategies can introduce biases in the composition and focus of the datasets if overly simplistic methods are used , such as searching for explicitly misogynistic terms ( Wiegand et al , 2019 ) . 
To ensure that our dataset contains enough misogynistic abuse we began with targeted sampling , taking content from 12 subreddits that were identified as misogynistic in previous research .
This includes subreddits such as r / MensRights , r / seduction , and r / TheRedPill .
The sources used to identify these subreddits are available in Table 9 in the Appendix .
We then identified 22 additional subreddits which had been recommended by the moderators / owners of the original 12 subreddits in the ' sidebar ' .
Some of these are not misogynistic but discuss women ( e.g. r / AskFeminists ) and/or are otherwise related to misogyny .
For example , r / exredpill is a support group for former members of the misogynistic subreddit r / TheRedPill .
Table 9 in the Appendix lists the 34 targeted subreddits and the number of entries and threads for each in the dataset .
Over 11 weeks , for each subreddit , we collected the entire threads of the 20 most popular posts that week . 
Using subreddits to target the sampling rather than keywords should ensure that more linguistic variety is captured , minimising the amount of bias as keywords such as ' slut ' are associated with more explicit and less subtle forms of abuse .
Nonetheless , only sampling from suspected misogynistic communities could still lead to classifiers which only identify the forms of misogyny found in those targeted contexts Wiegand et
al , 2019 ; Sap et
al , 2019 )
.
To account for this potential bias , and to enable greater generalisabilty , we sampled content from 71 randomly selected subreddits .
They accounted for 18 % of threads and 16 % of entries in our dataset .
For each randomly selected subreddit , we collected the thread of the most popular post .
All threads were in English with the exception of one thread from the subreddit r / Romania . 
Posts and comments were collected from February to May 2020 using the python package PRAW , a wrapper for the Reddit API ( Boe , 2020 ) .
Posts on Reddit have a text title and a body which can be text , an image , or a link .
For posts with a text body we combined this with the post title to create a single unit of text .
For the 29 % of posts where the body was an image we also collected the image .
We developed a hierarchical taxonomy with three levels .
First , we make a binary distinction between Misogynistic content and Non - misogynistic content , which are mutually exclusive .
Second , we elaborated subtypes of Misogynistic and Nonmisogynistic content .
For Misogynistic content we defined four categories : ( i ) Misogynistic Pejoratives , ( ii ) descriptions of Misogynistic Treatment , ( iii ) acts of Misogynistic Derogation and ( iv ) Gendered Personal attacks against women .
For Nonmisogynistic content we defined three categories : ( i ) Counter speech against misogyny , ( ii ) Nonmisogynistic personal attacks and ( iii ) None of the categories .
Third , we included additional flags for some of the second level categories .
Within both Misogynistic and Non - misogynistic content , the second level categories are not mutually exclusive , thereby allowing for multiple labels per entry .
For instance , a Misogynistic entry could be assigned labels for both a Pejorative and Treatment . 
This taxonomy draws on the typologies of abuse presented by Waseem et al ( 2017 ) and Vidgen et al ( 2019 ) as well as theoretical work in online misogyny research ( Filipovic , 2007 ; Mantilla , 2013 ; Jane , 2016 ; Ging , 2017 ; Ging and Siapera , 2019 ; Farrell et al , 2019 ) .
It was developed by reviewing existing literature on online misogyny and then iterating over small samples of the dataset .
This deductive - inductive process allowed us to ensure that conceptually distinct varieties of abuse are separated and that different types of misogyny can be unpicked .
This is important given that they can have very different impacts on victims , different causes , and reflect different outlooks and interests on the part of the speaker .
Misogynistic content directs abuse at women or a closely related gendered group ( e.g. feminists ) .
This content can fall in to four non - mutually exclusive categories .
Misogynistic pejoratives are terms which are used to disparage women .
It includes terms which are explicitly insulting and derogatory , such as ' slut ' or ' whore ' , as well as terms which implicitly express negativity or animosity against women , such as ' Stacy ' or ' Becky ' .
For example , ' Stacy ' is a term used in the incel community to describe women considered attractive and unattainable , in opposition to a more average and attainable ' Becky ' ( Jennings , 2018 ) .
Misogynistic treatment is content that discusses , advocates , incites or plans negative or harmful treatment of women .
It includes expressing intent to take action against women , as well as expressing desires about how they should be treated .
Misogynistic treatment contains third - level subcategories : Threatening language and Disrespectful actions . 
1 .
Threatening language : Content which expresses an intent / desire to inflict / cause women to suffer harm , or expresses support for , encourages , advocates or incites such harm .
It is an ' explicit ' form of abuse .
It falls in to three thematic groups : ( a ) Physical violence : non - sexual physical violence such as killing , maiming , beating , etc . e.g. ' Feminists deserve to be shot ' .
( b ) Sexual violence : explicit sexual violence such as rape , penetration , molestation , etc . e.g. ' Someone should rape her - that would put her in her place ' .
( c ) Privacy : an invasion of privacy such as the disclosure of personal information ( i.e. doxing ) or threats to visit them .
e.g. ' I know where you live , bitch ' .
Content which treats / portrays women as either lacking or not deserving independence / autonomy .
This includes more subtly abusive statements about how women should be treated and what they should be allowed to do .
It is an ' implicit ' form of abuse .
It falls in to four thematic groups : ( a ) Controlling : suggesting or stating that women should be controlled in some way , especially by a man or men .
E.g. ' I would never let my girlfriend do that ' .
( b ) Manipulation : using or advocating the use of tactics such as lying and gaslighting to manipulate what women do or think .
E.g. ' Told my last girlfriend she was hallucinating when she saw the texts from my side piece ' .
( c ) Seduction and conquest : discussing woman solely as sexual conquests or describing previous incidences of when they have been treated as such .
E.g. ' Got her home and used her so hard ' .
( d )
Other : content that is not covered by the other subcategories .
Misogynistic derogation is content that demeans or belittles women .
This content can be explicitly or implicitly abusive .
It is separated into third - level subcategories : 
1 .
Intellectual inferiority : making negative judgements of women 's intellectual abilities , such as a lack of critical thinking or emotional control .
This includes content which infantilizes women .
An implicit example would be ' My gf cries at the stupidest shit - lol ! ' for suggesting irrational emotional responses .
An explicit example is ' Typical stupid bitchtalking about things she does n't understand ' . 
2 . Moral inferiority : making negative judgements of women 's moral worth , such as suggesting they are deficient or lesser to men in some way .
This includes subjects such as superficiality ( e.g. only liking men who are rich or attractive ) , promiscuity , and untrustworthiness .
An implicit example is ' Girls love your money more than you ' .
An explicit example is ' My ex - girlfriend was a whore , she slept with every guy she saw ' . 
3 . Sexual and/or physical limitations : making negative judgements of women 's physical and/or sexual ability .
This includes perceived unattractiveness ( i.e. a lack of sexual desirability ) , ugliness ( i.e. a lack of beauty ) , frigidness ( i.e. a lack of sexual willingness ) , as well as belittling statements about feminine physical weakness .
An implicit example is ' I gave it my A - game
but she would not give in , so uptight ! '
An explicit example is ' Yikes , Dianne Abbott looks like a monkey ! '
4 . Other : content that is not covered by the other subcategories but is derogatory towards women .
Gender personal attacks are highly gendered attacks and insults .
This category is used only when the nature of the abuse is misogynistic , e.g. ' Hilary Clinton is such a stupid bitch , someone should give her a good fucking and put her in her place ' . 
The category has a level three flag for the gender of the recipient of the abuse .
We include this flag as research has shown that men can also be targeted by misogynistic attacks ( Jane , 2014 ) .
The gender can either be a woman ( e.g. ' That chick is dumb ' ) , a man ( e.g. ' This dude is a piece of shit ' ) or unknown ( e.g. ' You 're are an idiot , fuck off ' ) .
If the content was replying to an entry which reveals the recipient 's gender we can infer it from this context .
For example if ' You 're an idiot , fuck off ' was a response to ' I 'm a man and a feminist there 's nothing contradictory about that ' we know the abuse is targeted at a man .
Non - misogynistic content can fall in to three nonmutually exclusive categories , all of which are relevant for misogyny research .
Interpersonal abuse which is not misogynistic .
We include this category to allow for a comparison of the nature of abuse directed at women and men ( Duggan , 2017 ) .
It includes content which personally attacks a woman but is not misogynistic in nature , e.g. ' Hilary Clinton has no clue what she 's talking about , idiot ! ' .
It uses the same level three flag for the gender of the recipient as Misogynistic personal attack .
This allows us to compare the rates of personal attacks against women and men . 
Note that although it is possible for an entry to contain both Misogyny and a Non - misogynistic personal attack , this was very rare .
In such cases , we chose to not annotate the Non - misogynistic personal attack in order to keep the first level as a binary distinction .
Counter speech is content which challenges , refutes , and puts into question previous misogynistic abuse in a thread .
It could directly criticise previous abuse ( e.g. ' What you said is unacceptable ' ) , specifically accuse it of prejudice ( e.g. ' That 's incredibly sexist ' ) , or offer a different perspective which challenges the misogyny ( e.g ' That 's not how women act , you 're so wrong ' ) .
Content which does not contain misogynistic abuse , pejoratives , or related counter speech as defined in the previous categories .
This content is often not related to abuse or to women in general .
That said , it can include other forms of abusive language which are not misogynistic .
A key difficulty in the formation of abusive language training datasets is producing high quality annotations .
Several factors affect this .
Deciding between similar categories , such as ' hate speech ' versus ' offensive language ' can be difficult ( Waseem et al , 2017 ) .
Determining the right category often requires close scrutiny and sustained critical thinking from annotators .
Annotators may face information overload if asked to work with too many categories , both in terms of breadth ( e.g. annotating for different types of abuse ) and depth ( e.g. working with numerous subcategories ) .
Further , annotators may have different values and experiences and so make different assessments of the content they observe , especially when context plays a large role .
Annotators will also have unconscious social biases which may mean they interpret coding instructions differently to each other , and to how they were intended by the research authors .
For instance , found that crowdsourced annotators were more likely to label sexist content as merely ' offensive ' while racist and homophobic content was considered ' hate speech ' . 
To mitigate such annotator biases , we used expert annotators specifically trained in identifying misogynistic content , as well as a group - based facilitation process to decide final labels .
Due to time and resource constraints , the final dataset is smaller than if we had used crowdsourced workers but captures more nuanced and detailed cases of misogyny .
Six annotators worked on the dataset .
Annotators were trained in the use of a codebook detailing the taxonomy and annotation guidelines .
The codebook was updated over time based on feedback from the annotators .
Demographic information on the annotators is available in Appendix A.2
Annotators independently marked up each entry for the three levels presented in Section 4 .
For all level two categories other than ' None ' , they also highlighted the specific part of the entry which was relevant to the labelled category ( the ' span ' ) .
This is particularly important information for long posts which can contain multiple forms of abuse . 
Each entry was annotated by either two ( 43 % ) or three ( 57 % ) annotators .
If all annotators made the exact same annotation ( including all three levels and highlighting ) this was accepted as the final annotation .
All other entries were flagged as disagreements .
Annotators reviewed the disagreements in weekly meetings which were overseen by an expert facilitator , a PhD researcher who had developed the annotation taxonomy and was familiar with the literature on online misogyny and hate speech classification .
The role of the facilitator was to promote discussion between annotators and ensure the final labels reflected the taxonomy .
Each disagreement was discussed until the annotators reached a consensus on the final agreed label or labels .
For the level one binary task the Fleiss ' Kappa is 0.484 and the Krippendorf 's alpha is 0.487 .
By conventional NLP standards these results appear low .
However they are equivalent to , or above , those of existing abusive content datasets .
Sanguinetti et al ( 2018 ) report category - wise Kappas from k=0.37 for offence to k=0.54 for hate .
Gomez et al ( 2020 ) have a Kappa of 0.15 in the " MMH150 " dataset of hateful memes .
Fortuna and Nunes ( 2018 ) report a Kappa of 0.17 for a text - only task .
Krippendorf 's alpha is similar to the 0.45 reported by Wulczyn et al ( 2017 ) . 
We also calculated level two category - wise Fleiss ' Kappas for each of the 17 sets of annotator groups , then took the mean across all groups ( Ravenscroft et al , 2016 ) .
Table 1 shows the breakdown of Kappas per category .
There was greatest agreement for Misogynistic pejoratives ( k=0.559 ) down to the lowest agreement for Misogynistic personal attacks ( k=0.145 ) .
Fleiss Our taxonomy has seven partially overlapping categories , and as such annotation is considerably more difficult compared with most prior work , which tends to involve only binary labelling .
As such , whilst slightly low , we believe that our agreement scores show the robustness of our annotation approach .
Further , all disagreements were then discussed with an expert adjudicator , meaning that points of disagreement were addressed before the final labels were determined .
Of the 6 , 567 agreed labels in the final dataset 10.6 % are Misogynistic ( n=699 ) and 89.4 % are 868 ) .
Tables 2 and 3 show the number of labels in the final dataset for each of the Misogynistic and Non - misogynistic categories , broken down by the level two categories .
The vast majority of entries fall under None of the categories ( 88.6 % of all labels ) .
The next most common category is Misogynistic Pejoratives followed by Misogynistic Derogation pejoratives ( 4.2 % ) .
There are relatively few labels for Personal attacks with just 0.7 % in total for each of the Misogynistic and Nonmisogynistic categories , respectively .
The least common category is Counter speech against misogyny , with only ten cases ( 0.2 % ) .
Number
Annotators identified at least one misogynistic pejorative in 4.2 % of all entries .
The most common misogynistic term in the labels is ' bitch ' ( n=43 ) followed by ' stacy ' ( 24 ) and ' stacies ' ( 21 ) .
There are 103 labels of Treatment .
Figure 1 shows the number of labels for each level three subcategory .
There are almost five times as many labels for Disrespectful actions ( n=85 ) than Threatening language ( n=18 ) .
Both level three subcategories were broken down into more specific misogynistic themes .
Within Disrespectful actions , Seduction and conquest is the most common topic , with twice as many labels as the second most common , Controlling ( 43 vs 17 ) .
And , within Threatening language , Physical violence was the most common theme ( 13 Sexual violence and Invasion of privacy only have a couple of labels each ( three and two , respectively ) .
The are 286 Derogation labels .
Table 5 shows the breakdown of both Misogynistic and Nonmisogynistic personal attacks .
Slightly more than half ( 55 % ) of interpersonal abuse was not misogynistic .
Of these women were still the target of the abuse almost four times as often as men ( n=32 vs n=8 ) .
And women were as likely to receive misogynistic person attacks as non - misogynistic ones ( n=32 ) .
The gender of the target was only unknown in 5 % of cases , one misogynistic and three not .
There were two cases of misogynistic abuse against men .
All other misogynistic personal attacks were towards women .
There are only 10 cases of Counter speech in the final dataset of agreed labels .
Annotators originally identified far more counter speech ( 188 labels for 149 unique entries were initially made ) but few were accepted during the adjudication meetings .
In Section 5.2 we showed that the category has one of the lowest Kappa values .
Notably , 39 % of original Counter speech labels were made by one annotator , showing that the annotators had different understandings of the threshold for Counter speech .
However , the number of original labels for Counter speech decreased over the first few weeks of the annotation process , as shown in Figure 2 .
This reflects the complexity of the category ; it took annotators time to differentiate content that was pro - women from that which actually countered previous misogynistic speech .
As reference points for further research using our dataset , we provide three experimental baselines on the binary task of distinguishing between misogynistic and non - misogynistic content , i.e. level one of our taxonomy .
As the simplest baseline , we evaluate a logistic unigram classifier .
Further , we evaluate two uncased BERT - base models ( Devlin et al , 2019 ) - one unweighted , the other using class weights emphasising the minority class , i.e. misogynistic content , to account for class imbalance .
For all models , we use the same stratified 80/20 train / test split of the dataset .
Details on model training and parameters can be found in Appendix C. Performance of the three models is shown in Table 6 .
All models perform poorly on misogynistic content , with the logistic classifier performing worst overall .
The logistic classifier has the highest precision on misogynistic content ( 0.88 ) but very low recall ( 0.07 ) and a low F1 score ( 0.13 ) .
The weighted BERT model has the highest recall ( 0.50 ) and F1 score ( 0.43 ) .
Accuracy on all test cases , of which 91.9 % are non - misogynistic , is around 0.90 across models . 
The classification task is complicated by the relatively small size of our dataset ( n=6 , 385 unique cases ) as well as the relatively small proportion of misogynistic cases in it ( 8.1 % ) .
These issues are common in abusive speech detection ( Fortuna and Nunes , 2018 ; Fortuna et al , 2020 ) .
To address them , future research can leverage the typology and annotation process we introduced to collect additional cases , particularly misogynistic ones , thus growing and balancing the dataset .
We make use of the more granular secondary labels in our taxonomy to conduct an error analysis for the weighted BERT model .
Table 7 shows the confusion matrix for the 1 , 277 entries in the test set .
Overall , 137 entries ( 10.7 % ) were misclassified .
86 ( 63 % ) of these errors were false positives and 51 ( 37 % ) were false negatives .
Of the 86 entries misclassified as Misogynistic , three are labelled as Nonmisogynistic personal attacks .
An example is " Male feminist reacts to vile scumbag who murdered his kids by telling ALL men to , you know , stop killing women and kids ... " .
The use of aggressive language combined with gendered phrases ( such as " stop killing women " ) likely led to its misclassification . 
The remaining 83 false positives fall under None of the categories and all contain some reference to women .
Some refer to topics often associated with misogyny but are not misogynistic in themselves .
For example , a comment in r / seduction stated , " the most manly thing is to find your dream woman , marry her , and live happily ever after .
The constant sex with women is so overrated anyways " .
This entry , which suggests that other things than high levels of sexual activity should be prioritised , is thematically similar to misogynistic content in the dataset . 
Other false positives mention women indirectly .
" Because they are n't men , they are SIMPS " .
' Simp ' is a pejorative term used in the manosphere for a man who cares too much about a woman .
Under our taxonomy it did not count as a misogynistic pejorative but it is likely that the term appears in misogynistic entries in the dataset .
Some false positives are critical of misogyny , though not actively enough to count as Counter speech .
For example " Does this moid even know the meaning of the term ' butterface ' ?
If this woman is ugly , there is no hope for most of the female population . " .
This discussion of unrealistic beauty standards of women references misogyny but is not itself misogynistic .
Of the 51 Misogynistic entries the model misses , almost half ( n=24 ) contain Derogation .
Implicit and explicit derogation are missed at roughly similar rates , as are each of the subcategories .
Importantly this shows that the different forms of derogation are no more or less likely to be missed .
Precision Recall F1 score Accuracy
In many cases , the derogation depends on the context of the earlier conversation thread , thus the BERT - model , which does not explicitly take into account prior entries in the thread , can not recognise the misogyny in isolation .
" It 's funny to see the hamster that starts to act up in their little widdle tiny brains after saying that too . " is an explicit statement that women are intellectually inferior , but understanding that it refers to women depends on having seen previous entries in the conversation . 
The next most common source of false negatives is Pejoratives ( n=19 ) .
The classifier misses six counts each of ' whore ' and ' stacy ' and five of ' bitch ' .
There are seven missed labels for Treatment , five Disrespectful actions and two Threatening language .
However , due to the low prevalence of the category in the training data we anticipate some errors .
For example , " I am waiting for such incident to happen to me so that I can beat the shit out of her , and of course it will be all revenge " details a specific form of violence ( i.e. ' beat the shit out of her ' ) which the model can not know to identify as misogyny without being trained on other uses of the term . 
The final two errors are for Personal attacks .
For example , " Yeah there s women that I as an Incel would nt even acknowledge and this is one of em [ sic ] " .
This is an implicit attack which requires understanding that considering a woman unworthy of the attention of an incel is a gendered insult . 
As we can see from these examples the main classification errors are due to context limitations .
For false negatives there is usually not enough infor - mation in the entry alone or in the training dataset to identify the misogyny .
Conversely , for false positives the classifier appears to overly associate content about women with content that abuses women .
These limitations can be addressed by future work drawing on the taxonomy and annotation process presented here to develop larger datasets which can cover a greater range of forms of discourse , including both non - misogynistic discussions of women and a wider variety of misogynistic speech .
In this paper we have presented a hierarchical granular taxonomy for misogyny and have described a dataset containing high quality , expert labels of misogynistic content from Reddit .
We have also provided the detailed coding book we created and a dataset with all of the original labels .
The final dataset is small compared to other annotated datasets used for classification .
However it benefits from a detailed taxonomy based on the existing literature focused on just one form of online abuse - misogyny .
The use of trained annotators and an adjudication process also ensures the quality of the labels . 
The more granular subcategories in the taxonomy may be too small to classify separately , but they provide insights into the relative frequency of different forms of misogynistic content on Reddit and enable detailed error analysis .
They are also useful for other researchers aiming to create larger datasets , who can build on the taxonomic work conducted here .
A Short form data statement Following the recommendation of Bender and Friedman ( 2018 ) we include the following short form data statement to summarise the main features of the datasets .
Further details on the creation of the datasets are in in Sections 3 and 5 in the main paper .
The two datasets include labels for 6 , 383 unique Reddit entries ( i.e. posts or comments ) across 672 conversation threads collected .
One dataset is of the 15 , 816 original labels selected by annotators and the second is of the 6 , 567 agreed labels .
Table 8 provides a description of each of the variables in the datasets .
We also include the accompanying set of images associated with some original post entries . 
All threads except one are in English .
The majority of threads were sampled from a set of 34 subreddits selected for the expected prevalence of misogynistic content , or non - misogynistic discussions about women .
Paid annotators received extensive training to apply the taxonomy presented in this paper to label entries .
The majority of annotators were White - British , spoke English as a first language , and had or were pursuing a University degree .
Two - thirds of annotators were women .
All annotators were based in the United Kingdom and worked remotely .
They were paid £ 14 per hour for all work including training .
Five of the six annotators gave permission to share their basic demographic information .
All were between 18 and 29 years old .
Two had high school degrees , two had an undergraduate degree , and one had a postgraduate taught degree or equivalent .
Four identified as women , one as a man .
All were British nationals , native English speakers , and identified as ethnically white . 
All annotators used social media at least once per day .
Two had never been personally targeted by online abuse , two had been targeted 2 - 3 times ( in separate instances more than a year ago ) , and one had been personally targeted more than 3 times within the previous month .
Table 9 lists the subreddits used for target sampling of data .
The columns Num entries and Num threads state how many individual entries and threads from each subreddit are in the datasets .
The column Selection shows whether the subreddit was identified from existing literature , which is cited , or using snowball sampling .
 ( 1 )
( 1.1 )
Logistic regression with l1 - regularisation is implemented in R using the ' glmnet ' package ( Friedman et al , 2010 ) on a unigram representation of the data .
Lambda is selected using cross - validation and set to 0.015 .
Model Architecture We implement uncased BERT - base models ( Devlin et al , 2019 ) using the transformers Python library ( Wolf et al , 2020 ) .
For sequence classification , we add a linear layer with softmax output .
This research was funded by Wave 1 of The UKRI Strategic Priorities Fund under the EPSRC Grant EP / T001569/1 at The Alan Turing Institute , particularly the " Tools , Practices and System " and " Criminal Justice " themes .
Variable Description entry i
d A unique string assigned to every comment and post by Reddit .
link i
d The i d number of the original post of a thread .
parent i d The i d number of parent entry ( i.e. the post or comment this entry responds to ) .
subreddit The subreddit community where the entry was made .
author The Reddit username of the entry author .
body The text body of the entry .
For the original posts of threads the title and post body were combined .
image Whether the entry has an accompanying image .
Only applicable to posts .
Images are provided as jpg files .
They are named as ' X Y Z ' corresponding to the week ( X ) , group ( Y ) , and thread i
d
( Z ) .
label date The week commencing date of when the entry was labelled .
week The week in the annotation process when the entry as assigned ( 1 to 11 ) .
group The weekly group the entry was assigned to .
All weeks had two groups except week 7 which only had 1 . sheet order The order of the entry in the weekly annotation sheet .
This is a list of numbers referring to the nested structure of comments in threads .
It shows the i d number of each level of the thread from the original post to the relevant entry .
For example , if an entry has the sheet order ( 1 , 2 , 3 ) it belongs to the first thread ( 1 ) , and replied to the second comment ( 2 ) , to which it is the third reply ( 3 ) .
See Fig .
3
