Modeling Framing in Immigration Discourse on Social Media
The framing of political issues can influence policy and public opinion .
Even though the public plays a key role in creating and spreading frames , little is known about how ordinary people on social media frame political issues .
By creating a new dataset of immigrationrelated tweets labeled for multiple framing typologies from political communication theory , we develop supervised models to detect frames .
We demonstrate how users ' ideology and region impact framing choices , and how a message 's framing influences audience responses .
We find that the more commonlyused issue - generic frames obscure important ideological and regional patterns that are only revealed by immigration - specific frames .
Furthermore , frames oriented towards human interests , culture , and politics are associated with higher user engagement .
This large - scale analysis of a complex social and linguistic phenomenon contributes to both NLP and social science research .
Frame Type Frame Description Issue - Generic Economic Financial implications of an issue Policy Capacity & Resources The availability or lack of time , physical , human , or financial resources Morality & Ethics Perspectives compelled by religion or secular sense of ethics or social responsibility Fairness & Equality The ( in ) equality with which laws , punishments , rewards , resources are distributed Legality , Constitutionality & Jurisdiction Court cases and existing laws that regulate policies ; constitutional interpretation ; legal processes such as seeking asylum or obtaining citizenship ; jurisdiction
Framing selects particular aspects of an issue and makes them salient in communicating a message ( Entman , 1993 ) .
Framing can impact how people understand issues , attribute responsibility ( Iyengar , 1991 ) , and endorse possible solutions , thus having major implications for public opinion and policy decisions ( Chong and Druckman , 2007 ) .
While past work has studied framing by the news media and the political elite , little is known about how ordinary people frame political issues .
Yet , framing by ordinary people can influence others ' perspectives and may even shape elites ' rhetoric ( Russell Neuman et al , 2014 ) .
To shed light on this important topic , we focus on one issue - immigration - and develop a new methodology to computationally analyze its framing on Twitter . 
Our work highlights unique insights that social media data offers .
The massive amount of available social media content enables us to compare framing strategies across countries and political ideologies .
Furthermore , social media provides unique insights into how messages resonate with audiences through interactive signals such as retweets and favorites .
By jointly analyzing the production and reception of frames on Twitter , we provide an in - depth analysis of immigration framing by and on the public . 
Political communications research has identified numerous typologies of frames , such as issuegeneric policy , immigration - specific , and narrative .
Each of these frame types can significantly shape the audience 's perceptions of an issue ( Iyengar , 1991 ; Chong and Druckman , 2007 ; Lecheler et al , 2015 ) , but prior NLP work seeking to detect frames in mass media ( e.g. Card et al , 2016 ; Field et al , 2018 ; Kwak et al , 2020 ) has largely been limited to a single issue - generic policy typology .
Multiple dimensions of framing must be considered in order to better understand the structure of immigration discourse and its effect on public opinion and attitudes .
We thus create a novel dataset of immigration - related tweets containing labels for each typology to facilitate more nuanced computational analyses of framing .
This work combines political communication theory with NLP to model multiple framing strategies and analyze how the public on Twitter frames immigration .
Our contributions are as follows : ( 1 ) We create a novel dataset of immigrationrelated tweets labeled for issue - generic policy , immigration - specific , and narrative frames .
( 2 ) We develop and evaluate multiple methods to detect each type of frame .
( 3 ) We illustrate how a message 's framing is influenced by its author 's ideology and country .
( 4 ) We show how a message 's framing affects its audience by analyzing favoriting and retweeting behaviors .
Finally , our work highlights the need to consider multiple framing typologies and their effects .
Framing serves four functions : ( i ) defining problems , ( ii ) diagnosing causes , ( ii ) making evaluative judgments , and ( iv ) suggesting solutions ( Entman , 1993 ) .
Framing impacts what people notice about an issue , making it a key mechanism by which a text influences its audience .
Framing Typologies We draw upon distinct typologies of frames that can be applied to the issue of immigration : ( 1 ) issue - specific , which identify aspects of a particular issue , or ( 2 ) issue - generic , which appear across a variety of issues and facilitate cross - issue comparison ( de Vreese , 2005 ) . 
Issue - generic frames include policy frames that focus on aspects of issues important for policymaking , such as economic consequences or fairness and equality ( Boydstun et al , 2013 ) .
Other generic frames focus on a text 's narrative ; news articles use both episodic frames , which highlight specific events or individuals , and thematic frames , which place issues within a broader social context .
The use of episodic versus thematic frames can influence the audience 's attitudes .
For example , episodic frames lead audiences to attribute responsibility for issues such as poverty to individual citizens while thematic frames lead them to hold the government responsible ( Iyengar , 1991 ) . 
Issue - specific frames for immigration focus on the portrayal of immigrants .
Our analysis uses Benson ( 2013 ) 's set of issue - specific frames , which represent immigrants as heroes ( cultural diversity , integration , good workers ) , victims ( humanitarian , global economy , discrimination ) , and threats ( to jobs , public order , taxpayers , cultural values ) . 
Both issue - specific and generic frames provide unique insights but present advantages and drawbacks .
While issue - specific frames analysis are specific and detailed , they are hard to generalize and replicate across studies , which is a key advantage for generic frames ( de Vreese , 2005 ) .
Framing effects Studies of framing typically focus on either frame - building or framesetting ( Scheufele , 1999 ; de Vreese , 2005 ) .
Frame - building is the process by which external factors , such as a journalist 's ideology or economic pressures , influence what frames are used ; frame - building studies thus treat framing as the dependent variable .
Frame - setting studies treat frames as independent variables that impact how an audience interprets and evaluates issues . 
Prior analyses of frame - building in immigration news highlight region and ideology as particularly important factors .
Right - leaning media from conservative regions are more likely to frame immigrants as intruders ( van Gorp , 2005 ) , and as threats to the economy and public safety ( Fryberg et al , 2012 ) .
Framing also differs across countries ; while the US press emphasizes public order , discrimination , and humanitarian concerns , the French press more frequently frames immigrants as victims of global inequality ( Benson , 2013 ) . 
Frame - setting has also been studied in the context of immigration .
For example , experimental work has shown that frames eliciting angry or enthusiastic emotions impact participants ' opinions on immigration ( Lecheler et al , 2015 ) .
While past work has analyzed linguistic framing in Twitter immigration discourse ( e.g. , de Saint Laurent et al , 2020 ) , little is known about how such framing affects users ' interactive behaviors such as resharing content , which is a key objective of frame setting .
Because many people now generate and consume political content on social media , scholars have increasingly used automated techniques to study framing on social media . 
Large - scale research of framing on Twitter has commonly focused on unsupervised approaches .
( e.g. , Russell Neuman et al , 2014 ; Meraz and Papacharissi , 2013 ; de Saint Laurent et al , 2020 ) .
Such approaches , including those focused on hashtag analysis , can reveal interesting framing patterns .
For instance , Siapera et al ( 2018 ) shows that frame usage varies across events .
Similarly , topic models have been used to compare " refugee crisis " media discourses across the European countries ( Heidenreich et al , 2019 ) , and to uncover differences in attitudes towards migrants ( Hartnett , 2019 ) .
Although lexicon analysis and topic models can provide insights about immigration discourse , here , we adopt a supervised approach to ground our work in framing research and to enable robust evaluation . 
We draw inspiration from a growing body of NLP research that uses supervised approaches to detect issue - generic policy frames in news articles , a task popularized by the Media Frames Corpus ( Card et al , 2015 ) , which contains issuegeneric policy frame labels for articles across several issues ( Boydstun et al , 2013 ) .
Using this corpus , prior work has detected frames with techniques including logistic regression ( Card et al , Table 1 : List of all issue - generic policy ( Boydstun et al , 2013 ) , immigration - specific ( Benson , 2013Hovden and Mjelde , 2019 ) , and narrative ( Iyengar , 1991 ) frames with brief descriptions .
2016 ) , recurrent neural networks ( Naderi and Hirst , 2017 ) , lexicon induction ( Field et al , 2018 ) , and fine - tuning pretrained language models ( Khanehzar et al , 2019 ;
Kwak et al , 2020 ) .
Roy and Goldwasser ( 2020 ) further extracted subcategories of issue - generic policy frames in newspaper coverage using a weakly - supervised approach .
Finally , issue - generic frames have also been computationally studied in other media , including online fora and politicians ' tweets ( Johnson et al , 2017 ; Hartmann et al , 2019 ) .
We build upon this literature by incorporating additional frame typologies that reflect important dimensions of media discourse with real - world consequences ( Iyengar , 1991 ; Gross , 2008 ; Eberl et al , 2018 ) .
Beyond detecting frames , we computationally analyze frame - building and frame - setting among social media users ; though well - studied in traditional news media , little is known about how social media users frame immigration or its effects ( Eberl et al , 2018 ) . 
Noting that issue - generic policy frames obscure important linguistic differences , several works stud - ied issue - specific frames in news media for issues such as missile defense and gun violence ( Morstatter et al , 2018 ; Liu et al , 2019a ) .
We extend issuespecific frame analyses to immigration by adopting an immigration - specific typology developed by political communication scholars ( Benson , 2013 ) . 
In contrast to prior NLP work focused on traditional media or political elites ( Johnson et al , 2017 ; Field et al , 2018 ) , we highlight the role that social media publics play in generating and propagating frames .
Furthermore , we provide a new computational model of narrative framing ( Iyengar , 1991 ) , that together with models for issue - generic policy and issue - specific frames , provides complementary views on the framing of immigration .
Finally , our large - scale analysis of frame - setting illustrates the potential for using NLP to understand how a message 's framing shapes its audience behavior .
We first collect a large dataset of immigrationrelated tweets , and then annotate a subset of this full dataset for multiple types of frames .
Data Collection We extract all English - language tweets in 2018 and 2019 from the Twitter Decahose containing at least one of the following terms : immigration , immigrant ( s ) , emigration , emigrant ( s ) , migration , migrant ( s ) , illegal alien ( s ) , illegals , and undocumented 1 .
We focus on content creation and thus exclude retweets from our dataset , though we consider retweeting rates when analyzing the social influence of different frames .
We further restrict our dataset to tweets whose authors are identified as being located in the United States ( US ) , United Kingdom ( GB ) , and European Union ( EU ) by an existing location inference tool ( Compton et al , 2014 ) .
To compare framing across political ideologies , we obtain ideal point estimates for nearly two - thirds of US - based users with Barberá ( 2015 ) 's Bayesian Spatial Following model .
Our full dataset contains over 2.66 million tweets , 86.2 % of which are from the United States , 10.4 % from the United Kingdom , and 3.4 % from the European Union .
Data Annotation Tweets are annotated using three frame typologies : ( i ) issue - generic policy , ( ii ) immigration - specific , and ( iii ) narrative frames , where a tweet may use multiple frames simultaneously .
We use Boydstun et al ( 2013 ) 's Policy Frames Codebook to formulate our initial guidelines to code for policy frames .
We use Benson ( 2013 ) 's immigration - specific frames , but follow Hovden and Mjelde ( 2019 ) in including an additional category for framing immigrants as victims of war .
Finally , we code for narrative frames using definitions from Iyengar ( 1991 ) .
All frames and descriptions can be found in Table 1 , with a complete codebook in Supplementary Materials .
Because annotation guidelines from prior work focus on elite communications , we first adjusted our codebook to address challenges posed by Twitter content .
Changes were made based on feedback from four trained annotators who labeled 360 tweets from 2018 , split between the EU , GB , and US . 
Even for humans , identifying frames in tweets is a difficult task .
Defining the boundaries of what constitutes a message is not trivial .
Beyond the text , frames could be identified in hashtags , images , videos , and content from linked pages .
Furthermore , tweets are often replies to other users or part of a larger thread .
This additional context may influence an issue 's framing .
For simplicity , we treat each tweet as a standalone message and label frames based only on the text ( including hashtags ) . 
Unlike news stories , where frames are clearly cued , tweets often implicitly allude to frames due to character limitations .
For example , a tweet expressing desire to " drive immigrants out " with no additional context may suggest a criminal frame , but criminality is not explicit .
To minimize errors , we avoid making assumptions about intended meaning and interpret al messages literally . 
Training , development , and test data were annotated using two procedures after four annotators completed four rounds of training .
The dataset contains equal numbers of tweets from the EU , UK , and US .
Training data was singly annotated and includes 3 , 600 tweets , while the development and test sets each contain 450 tweets ( 10 % of the full dataset ) and were consensus - coded by pairs of trained annotators .
We opt for this two - tier approach due to ( i ) the inherent difficulty of the task 2 and ( ii ) the need to maximize diversity seen in training .
During annotator training , pilot studies attained moderate agreement , suggesting that to attain high - reliability , consensus coding with adjudication would be needed ( Krippendorff , 2013 ) , which comes at a cost of substantially increased time .
Because a large dataset of unique , singlycoded documents is preferable to a small dataset of documents coded by multiple annotators for text classification ( Barbera et al , 2021 ) , we decided to increase corpus diversity in the training data by singly - annotating , at the expense of potentially noisier annotation , and to consensus code all evaluation data .
On the double annotated data , annotators attained Krippendorff 's α=0.45 .
Additional details are provided in Supplementary Material ( B , Figures 6 and 7 ) .
Results We observe differences across frame typologies in coverage rates within the annotated data set .
While 84 % of tweets are labeled with at least one issue - generic policy frame and 85 % with at least one narrative frame , only 51 % are labeled with at least one issue - specific frame .
This difference is due to immigration - specific frames being more narrowly - defined , as they require explicit judgment of immigrants as heroes , victims , or threats .
Further details about frame distributions Random LogReg RoBERTa FT RoBERTa 0.193 0.296 0.611 0.657 in our annotations can be found in Supplementary Material ( A , Figure 5 ) .
While the precision of issue - specific frames can reveal patterns otherwise obscured by the broader issue - generic frames , this lack of coverage presents two challenges : 1 ) automated detection is more challenging given this sparsity and 2 ) analyses of issue - specific frames do not capture a large portion of immigration - related discourse .
By incorporating multiple framing strategies , we leverage both the coverage of issue - generic frames and the precision and interpretability of issue - specific frames .
We formulate frame detection as a multilabel classification problem for each of the three typologies , using our dataset to train supervised models .
Experimental Setup Our proposed model is a RoBERTa model ( Liu et al , 2019b ) trained using binary cross - entropy on the CLS token .
We consider both ( i ) a model trained using the roberta - base parameters and ( ii ) a second model that has first been fine - tuned on our full set of immigration tweets using masked - language modeling .
Fine tuning was performed for 60 epochs .
In both models , early stopping is used to avoid overfitting .
Models are compared with two baselines : random prediction , and logistic regression with unigram and bigram features .
Each model was trained five times with different random seeds and we report bootstrapped mean performance .
Results The fine - tuned RoBERTa model significantly outperforms all baselines ( Table 2 ) .
RoBERTa has the most substantial gains over logistic regression for low - frequency frames ( Supplementary Material C , Figure 8 ) .
These gains for rare frames are essential for analyzing immigra - tion discourse on social media in order to capture diverse perspectives and arguments . 
Table 3 shows several evaluation metrics separated by frame type .
Precision , recall , and F1 are calculated as unweighted averages over all frames belonging to each category .
Overall , issue - generic policy and narrative frames can be detected more effectively than issue - specific frames .
This difference reflects that issue - specific frames were sparser in the training data , but also that detecting these frames is inherently more challenging because it requires jointly reasoning about immigration - related topics and how these topics affect immigrants .
For example , tweets about immigrants committing crimes and tweets about hate crimes committed against immigrants have distinct issue - specific frames ( threat : public order and victim : discrimination ) , even though these texts can be linguistically quite similar .
Given some thematic similarities between typologies , we tested an additional model that jointly predicted frames from all three typologies using the fine - tuned RoBERTa model ; however , the resulting model offered worse performance than any single - typology model , suggesting minimal benefits of cross - typology learning .
Supplementary Section C contains additional model performance analyses by frame and region .
Hegemonic Framing Conservative media 's framing of political issues is known to be more consistent , coordinated , and hegemonic than mainstream media , which has been vital to the success of the American conservative movement ( Hemmer , 2016 ; Speakman and Funk , 2020 ) .
If the same pattern holds for social media , we would expect automated
These instances highlight the challenges of annotation ; there are convincing arguments that model 's predicted frames can be appropriate labels .
Interestingly , the criteria to which immigrants would be held would not be met by a large number of the ' British ' people either .
Model predicts frames that may capture an author 's intention but without sufficient evidence from the text
Model erroneously predicted Threat : Public Order Missing necessary contextual knowledge
Some frames are directly cued by lexical items ( e.g. politicians ' names cue Political frame ) , but model lacks real - world knowledge required to identify these frames @EricTrump
Eric
I have been alive longer than your immigrant mother in law and you .
I paid more in taxes than you did and your immigrant mother in law combined ...
Overgeneralizing highly - correlated features Many words and phrases do not directly cue frames , but are highly - correlated .
The model makes erroneous predictions when such features are used in different contexts ( e.g. violence against immigrants , rather than immigrants being violent )
Lunaria 's figures from 2018 recorded 12 shootings , two murders and 33 physical assaults against migrants in the first two months since Salvini entered government .
Model missed Victim : Humanitarian frame Pronoun ambiguity
Coreference resolution is often not possible and annotators avoided making assumptions to resolve ambiguities .
For example , " you " can be used to discuss individuals ' experiences ( episodic ) but its impersonal sense can be in broad generalizations ( thematic ) . 
It 's worse when you have immigrant parents who do n't speak the language cause you have to deal with all the paperwork , be the translator for them whenever they go ( ... ) its tiring but someone has to Model predicted Episodic but referent is unclear frame detection to achieve higher performance on conservative tweets due to more linguistic regularities across messages .
Indeed , we find that issuegeneric and issue - specific classifiers achieve higher F1 scores on tweets written by conservative authors compared to liberal authors ( Figure 1 ) , even though there are fewer conservative tweets in the training data ( 334 conservative vs 385 liberal tweets ) .
Higher model performance on conservative tweets suggests that , like political and media elites , conservatives on social media are more consistent than liberals in their linguistic framing of immigration .
Error Analysis We identify classification errors by qualitatively analyzing a random sample of 200 tweets that misclassified at least one frame .
Table 4 shows the most common categories of errors .
In writing about an issue , individuals are known to select particular frames - a process known as frame - building - based on numerous factors , such as exposure to politicians ' rhetoric or their own identity ( Scheufele , 1999 ) .
Here , we focus on two specific identity attributes affecting frame building : ( i ) political ideology and ( ii ) country / region . 
The political , social , and historical contexts of an one 's nation - state can impact how they frame immigration ( Helbling , 2014 ) .
Immigration has a long history in the USA relative to Europe , and former European colonial powers ( e.g. the UK ) have longer immigration histories than other countries ( e.g. Norway )
( Thorbjørnsrud , 2015 ; Eberl et al , 2018 ) .
Cross - country variation in news framing also arise from differences in immigration policies ( Helbling , 2014 ; Lawlor , 2015 ) , media systems ( Thorbjørnsrud , 2015 ) , journalis - tic norms ( Papacharissi and De Fatima Oliveira , 2008 ) , geographic proximity to immigrant populations or points of entry ( Grimm and Andsager , 2011 ; Fryberg et al , 2012 ) , and immigrants ' race / ethnicity ( Grimm and Andsager , 2011 ) .
At the same time , increased globalization may result in a uniform transnational immigration discourse ( Helbling , 2014 ) .
Framing variations across countries has implications for government policies and initiatives , particularly in determining what solutions could be applied internationally or tailored to each country ( Caviedes , 2015 ) . 
Prior studies on the role of ideology in framebuilding have focused on the newspapers or political movements , showing patterns in frames like morality and security by political affiliation in European immigration discourse ( Helbling , 2014 ; Hogan and Haltinner , 2015 ) or in use of economic frames by American newspapers ( Fryberg et al , 2012 ; Abrajano et al , 2017 ) .
However , it remains unclear whether these patterns observed for elite groups can generalize to the effect of individual people 's political dispositions .
We detect frames for all 2.6 M immigration - related tweets using the finetuned RoBERTa model with the best - performing seed on development data .
Using this labeled data , we estimate the effects of region and ideology by fitting separate mixed - effects logistic regression models to predict the presence or absence of each frame .
We treat region ( US , UK , and EU ) as a categorical variable , with US as the reference level .
Ideology is estimated using the method of Barberá ( 2015 ) , which is based on users ' connections to US political elites ; as such , we restrict our analysis of ideology to only tweets from the United States .
To account for exogenous events that may impact framing , we include nested random effects for year , month , and date .
We further control for user characteristics ( e.g. the author 's follower count , friends count , verified status and number of prior tweets ) as well as other tweet characteristics ( e.g. tweet length , if a tweet is a reply , and whether the tweet contains hashtags , URLs , or mentions of other users ) .
We apply Holm - Bonferroni corrections on p - values before significance testing to account for multiple hypothesis testing .
Ideology Ideology is strongly predictive of framing strategies in all three categories , as shown in Figure 2 .
Our results reveal three broad themes . 
First , prior work has argued that liberals and conservatives adhere to different moral foundations , with conservatives being more sensitive to in - group / loyalty and authority than liberals , who are more sensitive to care and fairness ( Graham et al , 2009 ) .
Our results agree with this argument .
Liberals are more likely to frame immigration as a fairness and morality issue , and immigrants as victims of discrimination and inhumane policies .
More conservative authors , on the other hand , fo - cus on frames with implications for the in - group .
They express concerns about 1 ) immigrants imposing a burden on taxpayers and governmental programs and 2 ) immigrants being criminals and threats to public safety .
We qualitatively observe three distinct , though unsubstantiated , conservative claims contributing to the latter : ( i. )
Immigrants commit violent crimes ( Light and Miller , 2018 ) , ( ii . )
Undocumented immigrants illegally vote in US elections ( Smith , 2017 ; Udani and Kimball , 2018 ) , and ( iii . )
Immigrants are criminals simply by virtue of being immigrants ( Ewing et al , 2015 ) . 
Figure 2 shows a clear ideological stratification for issue - specific frames : liberals favor hero and victim frames , while conservatives favor threat frames .
This finding is consistent with prior work on the role perceived threats play in shaping white American attitudes towards immigration ( Brader et al , 2008 ) , and the disposition of political conservatism to avoid potential threats ( Jost et al , 2003 ) . 
Second , while all frame categories show ideological bias , issue - specific frames are the most extreme .
Most notably , our analysis shows that focusing solely on issue - generic policy frames would obscure important patterns .
For example , the issuegeneric cultural identity frame shows a slight liberal bias ; yet , related issue - specific frames diverge : hero : cultural diversity is very liberal while threat : national cohesion is very conservative . 
Similarly , the issue - generic economic policy frame is slightly favored by more conservative authors , but the related issue - specific frames threat : jobs and hero : worker reveal ideological divides .
This finding highlights the importance of using multiple framing typologies to provide a more nuanced analysis of immigration discourse . 
Third , more liberal authors tend to use episodic frames , while conservative authors tend to use thematic frames .
This difference is consistent with Somaini ( 2019 ) 's finding that a local liberal newspaper featured more episodic framing in immigration coverage , but a comparable conservative newspaper featured more thematic framing .
Other efforts that examine the relationship between narrative frames and cognitive and emotional responses provide some clues for the observed pattern .
For instance , Aarøe ( 2011 ) shows that thematic frames are stronger when there are no or weak emotional responses ; and that the opposite is true for episodic frames .
The divergence of findings could be driven by partisans ' differing emotional responses .
Our findings also highlight important consequences for opinion formation .
Iyengar ( 1990 ) shows that episodic framing diverts attention from societal and political party responsibility ; our results suggest that liberal Twitter users are likely to produce ( and , due to partisan self - segregation , consume ) social media content with such effects .
Region Immigration framing depends heavily on one 's geopolitical entity ( US , UK , and EU ) , as shown in Figure 3 .
Several notable themes emerge .
First , many ideologically - extreme frames in the US , including crime & punishment , security & defense , threat : public order , and threat : fiscal are all significantly more likely to be found in US - based tweets relative to the UK and EU .
This pattern suggests that region and ideology , and likely many other factors , interact in intricate ways to shape how ordinary people frame political issues .
Second , cultural identity is more strongly associated with both the UK and EU than the US .
Perhaps immigrants ' backgrounds are more marked in European discourse than in US discourse because the UK and EU have longer histories of cultural and ethnic homogeneity ( Thorbjørnsrud , 2015 ) .
This finding also reflects that Europeans ' attitudes towards immigration depend on where immigrants are from and parallels how European newspapers frame immigration differently depending on migrants ' countries of origin ( Eberl et al , 2018 ) . 
Finally , the bottom of Figure 3 shows that users from the UK are more likely to invoke labor - related frames .
This prevalence of labor and economic frames has also been found in British traditional media ( Caviedes , 2015 ; Lawlor , 2015 ) , and has been attributed to differences in the labor market .
Unlike migrants in the US , Italy , and France , who often work clandestinely in different economic sectors than domestic workers , UK migrants have proper authorization and are thus viewed as competition for British workers because they can work in the same industries ( Caviedes , 2015 ) .
Chong and Druckman ( 2007 , p. 116 ) assert that a " challenge for future work concerns the identification of factors that make a frame strong . "
Studies of frame - setting - i.e. , how a message 's framing affects its audience 's emotions , beliefs , and opinions - have largely been restricted to smallscale experimental studies because responses to news media framing can not be directly observed ( Eberl et al , 2018 ) .
However , Twitter provides insight into the frame - setting process via interactive signals : favorites and retweets .
While related , these two actions can have distinct underlying motivations : favoriting often indicates positive alignment between the author and the reader ; in contrast , retweeting may also be driven by other motivations , such as the desire to inform or entertain others ( boyd et al , 2010 tweets with detected author ideology .
The presence of a frame is treated as a binary fixed effect .
We control for all temporal , user - level and tweet - level features as in the prior section , as well as ideology . 
Results The framing of immigration has a significant impact on how users engage with the content via retweets and favorites ( Figure 4 ) .
Many issuespecific frames have a stronger effect on audience responses than either of the other typologies .
As recent NLP approaches have adopted issue - generic frames for analysis ( e.g. , Kwak et al , 2020 ) , the strength of issue - specific frames highlights the importance of expanding computational analyses beyond issue - generic frames , as other frames may have larger consequences for public opinion . 
Most frames impact favorites and retweets differently , suggesting that the strength of a frame 's effects is tied to the specific engagement behavior .
Cultural frames ( e.g. hero : integration ) and frames oriented around human interest ( e.g. morality , victim : discrimination ) are particularly associated with more endorsements ( favorites ) , perhaps due to their increased emotional appeal to readers ( Semetko and Valkenburg , 2000 ) . 
On the other hand , political factors & implications is most highly associated with increased retweets .
As the political frame emphasizes competition and strategy ( Boydstun et al , 2013 ) , this result mirrors similar links between the " horse - race " frame in news reports and engagement ( Iyengar et
al , 2004 ) ; users may prefer amplifying political messages via retweeting to help their side win . 
Similarly , frames about security and safety ( e.g. crime & punishment , victim : humanitarian ) are highly associated with more retweets , but not necessarily favorites .
While security and safety frames may not lead audience members to endorse such messages , perhaps they are more likely to amplify these messages due to perceived urgency or the desire to persuade others of such concerns . 
Finally , Figure 4 shows how a message 's narrative framing impacts audience response , even after controlling for all other frames .
Both episodic and thematic frames are significantly associated with increased engagement ( retweets ) , but less strongly than issue frames .
Having a clear narrative is important for messages to spread , but the underlying mechanisms driving engagement behaviors may differ for episodic and thematic frames ; prior work on mainstream media has found that news stories using episodic frames tend to be more emotionally engaging , while thematic frames can be more persuasive ( Iyengar , 1991 ; Gross , 2008 ) .
Users ' exposure to political information on social media can have immense consequences .
By leveraging multiple theory - informed typologies , our computational analysis of framing enables us to better understand public discourses surrounding immigration .
We furthermore show that framing on Twitter affects how audience interactions with messages via favoriting and retweeting behaviors .
This work has implications for social media platforms , who may wish to improve users ' experiences by enabling them to discover content with a diversity of frames .
By exposing users to a wide range of perspectives , this work can help lay foundations for more cooperative and effective online discussions .
All code , data , annotation guidelines , and pretrained models are available at https : //github.com / juliamendelsohn / framing .
Our analysis of frame - building involves inferring political ideology and regional from users with existing tools , so we aggregated this information in our analysis in order to minimize the risk of exposing potentially sensitive personal data about individuals .
Our dataset includes tweet IDs along with frame labels , but no additional social information .
However , there are also ethical consequences of categorizing people along these social dimensions .
We acknowledge that reducing people 's social identities to region and ideology obscures the wide range of unobservable and non - quantifiable predispositions and experiences that may impact framing and attitudes towards immigration . 
We emphasize that our dataset is not fully representative of all immigration discourse and should not be treated as such .
Twitter 's demographics are not representative of the global population ( Mislove et al , 2011 ) .
Furthermore , our dataset only includes tweets with authors from particular Western countries .
All tweets were automatically identified by Twitter as being written in English , thus additionally imposing standard language ideologies on the data that we include ( Milroy , 2001 ) .
Furthermore , language choice itself can be a socially and politically meaningful linguistic cue that may have unique interactions with framing ( e.g. , Gal , 1978 ; Shoemark et al , 2017 ; Stewart et al , 2018 ; Ndubuisi - Obi et al , 2019 ) . 
Although we do not focus on abusive language , our topical content contains frequent instances of racism , Islamophobia , antisemitism , and personal insults .
We caution future researchers about potentially traumatic psychological effects of working with this dataset . 
We aim to support immigrants , an often marginalized group , by shedding light on their representation on social media .
However , there is a risk that malicious agents could exploit our framesetting findings by disseminating harmful content packaged in more popular frames .
Figure 5 shows the distribution of frames as a fraction of total tweets in the annotated data .
Tables 5 - 8 and Figures 8 - 9 provide details about the fine - tuned RoBERTa models ' performance .
Tables 9 - 35 show independent variable coefficients for logit regressions predicting frames from region .
Tables 36 - 62 show independent variable coefficients for logit regressions predicting frames from ideology .
We thank Anoop Kotha , Shiqi Sheng , Guoxin Yin , and Hongting Zhu for their contributions to the data annotation effort .
We also thank Libby Hemphill and Stuart Soroka for their valuable comments and feedback .
This work was supported in part through funding from the Volkswagen Foundation .
