Scalable Construction and Reasoning of Massive Knowledge Bases - Proposal for a Tutorial at NAACL 2018
In today 's information - based society , there is abundant knowledge out there carried in the form of natural language texts ( e.g. , news articles , social media posts , scientific publications ) , which spans across various domains ( e.g. , corporate documents , advertisements , legal acts , medical reports ) , and grows at an astonishing rate .
How to turn such massive and unstructured text data into structured , actionable knowledge for computational machines , and furthermore , how to teach machines learn to reason and complete the extracted knowledge is a grand challenge to the research community .
Traditional IE systems assume abundant human annotations for training high quality machine learning models , which is impractical when trying to deploy IE systems to a broad range of domains , settings and languages . 
In the first part of the tutorial , we introduce how to extract structured facts ( i.e. , entities and their relations of different types ) from text corpora to construct knowledge bases , with a focus on methods that are minimally - supervised and domain - independent for timely knowledge base construction across various application domains . 
In the second part , we introduce how to leverage other knowledge , such as the distributional statistics of characters and words , the annotations for other tasks and other domains , and the linguistics and problem structures , to combat the problem of inadequate supervision , and conduct low - resource information extraction . 
In the third part , we describe recent advances in knowledge base reasoning .
We start with the gentle introduction to the literature , focusing on pathbased and embedding based methods .
We then describe DeepPath , a recent attempt of using deep reinforcement learning to combine the best of both worlds for knowledge base reasoning .
The success of data mining and artificial intelligence technology is largely attributed to the efficient and effective analysis of structured data .
The construction of a well - structured , machine - actionable knowledge base ( KB ) from raw ( unstructured or loosely - structured ) data sources is often the premise of consequent applications .
Although the majority of existing data generated in our society is unstructured , big data leads to big opportunities to uncover structures of real - world entities ( e.g. , person , product ) , attributes ( e.g. , age , weight ) , relations ( e.g. , employee of , manufacture ) from massive text corpora .
By integrating these semantic structures , one can construct a powerful KB as a conceptual abstraction of the original corpus .
The constructed knowledge base will facilitate browsing information and inferring knowledge that are otherwise widely scattered in the text corpora .
Computational machines can effectively perform algorithmic analysis at a large scale over these KBs , and apply the new insights to improve human productivity in various downstream tasks . 
Our Focus . 
In this tutorial , we focus our discussion on two tightly related problems : automatic construction of knowledge bases from text , and knowledge reasoning for knowledge base completion .
While traditional information extraction techniques have heavy reliance on human - annotated data , our tutorial will devote more time on introducing methods that can reduce human efforts in the process , by leveraging external knowledge sources ( e.g. , distant supervision ) and exploiting rich data redundancy in massive text corpora ( e.g. , weak supervision ) .
We also discuss how data sources from various domains and languages could opens up tremendous opportunities to leverage and transfer existing knowledge about domains , tasks and language , and help knowledge extraction in low - resource settings with minimal supervision .
In the reasoning part , we aim to leverage the existing background knowledge and design various algorithms to fill in the missing link between entities in the KB , given the extracted KBs are likely incomplete .
More specifically , this part will introduce two lines of research for KB reasoning : path - based and embedding - based methods . 
Topics to be covered in this tutorial .
The first 2/3 of this tutorial presents a comprehensive overview of the information extraction techniques developed in recent years for constructing knowledge bases ( see also Section 2 for a more detailed outline ) .
We will discuss the following key issues : ( 1 ) data - driven approaches for mining quality phrases from massive , unstructured text corpora ; ( 2 ) entity recognition and typing : preliminaries , challenges , and methodologies ; and ( 3 ) relation extraction : previous efforts , limitations , recent progress , and a joint entity and relation extraction method using distant supervision ; ( 4 ) multi - task and multi - domain learning for lowresource information extraction ; ( 5 ) distill linguistic knowledge into neural models to help low - resource information extraction .
The second half of the tutorial presents a comprehensive overview of KB reasoning techniques .
For path - based methods , we will first describe the Path - Ranking Algorithm ( PRA ) ( Lao et al , 2011 ) and briefly describe extensions such as ProPPR .
Our tutorial will also cover the recent integration of PRA with recurrent neural networks .
For the embedding based method , we will briefly describe RESCAL ( Nickel et al , 2011 ) and TransE ( Bordes et al , 2013 ) .
Finally , we discuss DeepPath ( Xiong et al , 2017 ) , a novel deep reinforcement learning model that combines the embedding and path - based approaches for the learning to reason problem . 
Research Impact .
Our phrase mining tool , SegPhrase ( Liu et al , 2015 ) , won the grand prize of Yelp Dataset Challenge 1 and was used by TripAdvisor in productions 2 .
Our entity recognition and typing system , ClusType , was shipped as part of the products in Microsoft Bing and U.S. Army Research Lab .
We built the first named entity recognizer on Chinese social media Dredze , 2015 , 2016 ) and closed the gap between NER on English and Chinese social media .
The same technique was applied to build the first relation extractor for cross - sentence , n - ary relation extraction between drug , gene , and mutation ( Peng et al , 2017 ) . 
Duration and Sessions .
The duration of the tutorial is flexible : It is expected to be 3 hours , but it can be extended into 6 hours , based on the need of the conference .
The outline presented here is for the 3 - hour tutorial .
For longer duration of the tutorial , we plan to extend entity and relation extraction parts , and add in more case studies and applications . 
Relevance to ACL .
Machine " reading " and " reasoning " of large text corpora have long been the interests to CL and NLP communities , especially when people now are exposed to an explosion of information in the form of free text .
Extracting structured information is key to understanding messy and scattered raw data , and effective reasoning tools are critical for the use of KBs in downstream tasks like QA .
This tutorial will present an organized picture of recent research on knowledge base construction and reasoning .
We will show how exciting and surprising knowledge can be discovered from your own not so well - structured raw corpora , and such incomplete KBs can be further used to derive new insights and more complex knowledge with reasoning techniques .
This tutorial presents a comprehensive overview of techniques for automatic knowledge base construction from text data ( especially from a large , domain - specific text corpora ) , and techniques for reasoning over large - scale knowledge bases .
We will discuss the following key issues :
Most of the previous tutorials focused exclusively on the knowledge base construction aspect .
In the proposed tutorial , we will give a systematic discussion on the problem of knowledge base reasoning , for which extensive studies have been conducted recently but systematic tutorials are lacking .
This tutorial also presents recent advances in applying distant and weak supervision to the extraction of structured facts in knowledge base construction , in addition to the traditional supervised techniques and rule - based approaches . 
Target audience and prerequisites . 
Researchers and practitioners in the field of natural language processing , computational linguistic , text mining , information retrieval , semantic web and machine learning .
While the audience with a good background in these areas would benefit most from this tutorial , we believe the material to be presented would give general audience and newcomers an introductory pointer to the current work and important research topics in this field , and inspire them to learn more .
Only preliminary knowledge about NLP , algorithms and their applications are needed .
We expect there will be around 70 people interested in our tutorial . 
Tutorial material and equipment .
We will provide attendees a website and upload our tutorial materials ( slides , references , softwares ) .
There is no copyright issue .
Standard equipment will be enough for our tutorial .
