MovieChats : Chat like Humans in a Closed Domain
Being able to perform in - depth chat with humans in a closed domain is a precondition before an open - domain chatbot can ever be claimed . In this work , we take a close look at the movie domain and present a large - scale high - quality corpus with fine - grained annotations in hope of pushing the limit of moviedomain chatbots . We propose a unified , readily scalable neural approach which reconciles all subtasks like intent prediction and knowledge retrieval . The model is first pretrained on the huge general - domain data , then finetuned on our corpus . We show this simple neural approach trained on high - quality data is able to outperform commercial systems replying on complex rules . On both the static and interactive tests , we find responses generated by our system exhibits remarkably good engagement and sensibleness close to human - written ones . We further analyze the limits of our work and point out potential directions for future work 1 .
Being able to converse like humans in a closed domain is a precondition before an intelligent opendomain chatbot , which further requires transiting among various domains , can be designed Su et al , 2020 ) . Nonetheless , even if constrained in a specific domain , current chatbots are still far from satisfactory . Unlike task - oriented systems that can be relatively well - resolved with handcrafted templates , human conversations feature a complex mixture of QA , chitchat , recommendation , etc . without pre - specified goals or conversational patterns ( Dodge et al , 2016 ; Akasaki and Kaji , 2017 ; . Selecting proper domain knowledge to support response generation at all the different situations is challenging ( Milward and Beveridge , 2003 ; Shen et al , 2019 ) . In this work , we direct our focus to the movie domain and present a large - scale , crowdsourced Chinese dataset with fine - grained annotations in hope of boosting the study towards a human - like closed - domain chatbot . A variety of dialogue datasets with grounded domain knowledge have already been proposed . However , they are collected either through ( 1 ) online forum crawling ( Dodge et al , 2016 ; Ghazvininejad et al , 2018 ; Liu et al , 2018 ; Zhou et al , 2018a ; , which are noisy , multi - party , mostly contain only single - exchange QA , or ( 2 ) crowdsourced ( Zhu et al , 2017 ; Zhou et al , 2018b ; Moon et al , 2019 ; , which are small - scale and often created in an overconstrained setting like teacher - student ( Moghe et al , 2018 ) . Even for datasets crowd - sourced in unconstrained scenarios , suggestive domain knowledge is provided for humans before an utterance is provided . This would inevitably prompt humans to utilize these knowledge deliberately , yielding unnatural conversations simply connecting the knowledge ( Dinan et al , 2019 ; . We show examples from other datasets in Appendix Table 10 . In comparison , our dataset has the following advantages : 1 . Natural : Crowdworkers chat in a free environment without further constraint or prompt in order to mimic the human daily conversations to the largest extent . 2 . Large - scale : It covers 270k human dialogues with over 3 M utterances , which is at least one order of magnitude larger than all the other crowd - sourced datasets . 3 . Annotated : Utterances are labeled with entity information and dialogue acts classified into 15 fine - grained aspects , based on which linked into different types of knowledge . Different from previous crowd - sourced works , our annotation process is conducted posteriori so that it will not interfere with human conversations , e.g. , prompt them to overuse suggested knowledge . Built upon our dataset , we propose a simple unified language model approach to push the limits of movie - domain chatbots . The model is first pretrained on 2.2B words collected from various general - domain conversational resources , then finetuned on the movie dataset with additional knowledge and dialogue acts incorporated . We pool all components like intent prediction and knowledge retrieval into a sequence prediction task and solve them with a unified language model architecture . It avoids designing complex systems for individual components separately and all subtasks can be easily trained simultaneously ( Hosseini - Asl et al , 2020 ; Peng et al , 2020 ) . We show our simple unified approach outperforms strong baselines for each separate subtask . Knowledge retrieval , dialogue acts prediction and general - domain pretrain benefit from each other and altogether bring improvement to the generation quality . In the online interactive test , our best model succeeds at chatting with humans for 11.4 turns without being detected to be a machine , outperforming even commercial chatbots Mitsuku 2 and Microsoft XiaoIce 3 which further rely on complex rules . By analyzing the limitations of our model , we find it especially has difficulty at dealing with in - depth discussions over long turns . Future research can consider employing larger knowledge base or explicit state tracking . In summary , our main contributions are ( 1 ) presenting a high - quality , large - scale Chinese conversational corpus with fine - grained annotations in the movie domain to benefit future study , ( 2 ) showing that a simple unified neural model trained on the high - quality dataset can approach human performance and even outperform commercial systems replying on complex rules , and ( 3 ) studying the shortcomings of current techniques , providing suggestive directions for future research .
The dataset construction consist of ( 1 ) crowdsourcing the dialogues , ( 2 ) annotating dialog acts and entities and ( 3 ) linking utterances into grounded knowledge . We explain these three steps in order and present the dataset statistics in the end . Dialogue Crowd - sourcing We obtain the dialogue dataset through a two - phase Wizard - of - Ozstyle collection ( Kelley , 1984 ; Dahlbäck et al , 1993 ) . In the first phase , we run small - scale pilot studies and examine the quality of collected conversations . Based on the examination , we created tutorials and qualification tests . They are used to train and qualify crowd - workers for the second phase . During this second phase , we consistently monitor the collected dialogue datasets and perform periodic quality check on samples from every individual work pairs . If more than 5 % from one pair are considered invalid , their collections will be removed . Before a conversation started , two workers are paired and a movie is chosen agreed by both 4 . We constrain at least one of them to have watched the movie to make sure the conversation is contentful 5 . The annotators are especially instructed to ( 1 ) behave naturally as in daily life , ( 2 ) avoid dirty words and ( 3 ) talk differently in each conversation . Duplicate conversations will be removed if more than 70 % of their contents are overlapped . To encourage diverse movies , we further set an upper limit to forbid one movie from being talked about for more than 100 times . The whole collecting process lasts two months . In the end , 245 participants are involved with 66 , 424 movies being talked about in total . Dialogue Act and Entity Annotation Following prior work , we base our annotation schema on the ISO 24617 - 2 standard ( Bunt et al , 2010 ( Bunt et al , , 2012 . Table 1 shows our annotation schema , counts , descriptions , and brief examples . The dialogue acts ( DAs ) are organized in a hierarchical structure . The first layer makes distinctions on three concepts : objective facts , recommendations and subjective feelings . Each concept can either be either requested or informed during the conversation . We further define an " Other " class to include actions that do not belong to any of the three concepts , like some general non - contentful greetings or echos . The second layer includes 15 finer - grained aspects covering most popular topics being discussed . Every first - layer DA ( except Other ) will be further group it into one of these 15 aspects , e.g. , the de - tailed DA of the first example in Table 1 will be request fact director . If one utterance contains multiple dialogue acts , we order the dialogue acts based on their turn of appearance in the utterance . As for the named entity recognition , we labeled 5 kinds of entities : movie names , director , actor , type and role ( first 5 aspects ) . To speed up the annotation process , we first define a set of handcrafted regular expressions , which covers most frequent patterns at each class , to train a DA and NER classifier . The annotators are instructed to post - correct the auto - labeled dialogues instead of doing everything from scratch . The classifiers are trained with online learning ( Sahoo et al , 2018 ) to keep improving the accuracy and lower down the frequency of post - correction in consequence . As we observe , this semi - automated way significantly speeds up the labeling process . All the dataset is finished labeling within three weeks with 188 annotators involved . Knowledge Linkage We extract fact knowledge from the structured table in Douban Movie 6 , a popular Chinese platform for movies . The knowledge is organized in the form of key - value pairs , where the key corresponds to the 15 aspects defined by us . Some aspects , like lines or music , are not directly available from the structured table . We extract these missing information from other sources and combine it into our knowledge base . For utterances labeld as inform / request fact , we link them to the key - value pairs from the same aspect . Apart from the objective knowledge , we also crawl movie comments from Douban Movie to support the generation of responses expressing subjective feelings . These comments can be a good supplementary to provide knowledge that can be hardly organized in the structured form ( Moghe et al , 2018 ) . For utterances labeled as inform / request feeling , we compare them with Douban comments from the same movie and compute the similarity score based on weighted average of edit distance , Jaccard distance , tf - idf , sentence vector cosine similarity , common words and entities . Each utterance is linked to the most similar comment with a threshold cutoff . In the end , 51.7 % of the utterances about feelings have grounded comments . For utterances about recommendations , we simply ground them to the men - tioned movie entities 7 , and no grounded knowledge is linked for utterances labeled as Other . An example of our annotation is presented in Table 1 .
Language models have demonstrated impressive performance as a universal learner across NLP tasks ( Shen et al , 2017 ; Peters et al , 2018 ; Radford et al , 2019 ; Brown et al , 2020 ) . Inspired by this , our dialogue generation model is implemented as a Transformer - based language model like GPT2 ( Radford et al , 2019 ; . It contains a pipeline process of movie tracker , intent prediction , knowledge retrieval and text gener - 7 We only consider recommending movies as for the DA about recommendation . Recommending other aspects require assembling recommendation systems of different domains , which is beyond the scope of this paper .
  [ context ] dialogue context ation . Unlike in traditional task - oriented systems where subtasks are decomposed separately , we opt for a simple and unified approach by casting all subtasks into sequence prediction . A special token is injected in the beginning to indicate which subtask to perform ( Hosseini - Asl et al , 2020 ; Peng et al , 2020 ) . Table 3 shows the schema representation for different components . The condition and the target are concatenated into a single sequence and then fed into the language model to train . For example , the task of predicting the intent given the dialogue context will be transformed into "
The intent prediction is also cast as a sequence prediction task . Compared with the traditional way of multi - label classification , casting it as sequence prediction is better at addressing the coexistence of multiple DAs and capturing the sequential dependencies among the hierarchy ( Raffel et al , 2019 ; Vedula et al , 2020 ) . For example , to predict the DAs of the 4th utterance in Figure 1 , the sequence fed to the language model will be " [ context ] dialogue context [ intent ] inform , feeling , plot , request , fact , plot " . By this means , before predicting a DA , the model can condition on both the dialogue context and its previous DAs to improve the accuracy .
The knowledge retrieval component is similar to the classical DSSM model ( Huang et al , 2013 ) . We replace the MLP with our language model encoder to get the embedding for knowledge . Note that we only select knowledge from the current movie , which can be obtained from the movie tracker , so it is possible to " will be fed to the language model to generate the response . To make it consistent with the pretrained general - domain dialogue , the position embedding of the decoded response will skip the concatenated intent and knowledge and directly follow the dialogue context . We find this beneficial when combined with pretrained models . The objective also follows the pretrained model mixing maximum lilkelihood and unlikelihood training .
We tokenize the Text in the unit of Chinese characters and keep all unique non - Chinese unique tokens appearing for more than 5 times . The whole vocabulary contains 13 , 317 words . We train our model on 24 Nvidia V100 GPUs ( 32 GB ) with three different model sizes as shown in PyTorch ( Paszke et al , 2019 ) .
Automatic Evaluation In Table 5 , we report the perplexity , BLEU scores and distinct uni / bigrams for three model sizes . To investigate the effects of incorporating annotations and pretraining , we start from a basic model which trains from scratch on our movie corpus . At each time , we add one more condition to see its influence . The results show a clear tendency of gradual improvement as more conditions are added to the training . Adding knowledge especially boosts the performance , which is understandable considering movie - domain chats usually contain many movie - specific rare names . Without knowledge grounding , it can hardly predict the correct tokens . Pretraining on general - domain conversations can improve both the overlap with ground truth . The distinct uni / bigrams also consistently increase , implying the model can learn useful patterns in the pretrained corpus to enrich its generations in the movie domain . In unseen testset , the performance generally drops for all , especially for models without knowledge grounding as they have to make up facts and comments for totally unseen movies in the training set . Table 6 measures the accuracy of predicting dialogue act ( DA ) , aspect and movie tracker of our model . Our models are all pretrained with general - domain corpus beforehand . Apart from being trained only to predict the individual tasks , we include the results where all subtasks are cotrained end - to - end in the last line . We compare our models with the Chinese RoBERTa ( Liu et Table 7 measures the performance of retrieving fact knowledge , movie comments and recommen - dation respectively . We report the hit@1 and hit@5 scores for them ( Zhang et al , 2018 ) . We compare our model with a random baseline , bag - ofword ( BOW ) and the Bert ( Devlin et al , 2019 ) model ( we pass sentences through Bert and derive a fixed - sized vector by averaging the outputs from the second - to - last layer ( May et al , 2019 ) ) . The BOW and Bert model are finetuned with our knowledge linkage annotations . We find that our unified model again outperforms all baseline approaches . Adding the DA as a condition further helps . Fact retrieval has the highest hit rate as it is well structured and easy to match . Recommendation , on the other hand , is very hard to predict . As an accurate recommendation system is clearly beyond the scope of this paper , it is understandable that our simple way fails to provide satisfying recommendations . Human Evaluation Automatically evaluating dialogue systems are known to be extremely hard ( Liu et al , 2016 ; . We further conduct a set of static and interactive human evaluations . We focus on evaluate the machine - generated response from four perspectives . Apart from the oft - used metrics ( 1 ) Sensibleness ( Sens ) and ( 2 ) Engagement ( Enga ) for open - domain chatbots , we further evaluate on ( 3 ) Factuality ( Fact ) and ( 4 ) Informativeness ( Info ) to see if models can actively provide informative responses based on movie facts . Details are in Appendix B. As evaluating factuality requires specific movie knowledge , this metric is only evaluated by the same person who produced the dialogue . The other metrics are evaluated by 3 workers each . Table 8 shows the agreement scores . The agreement is reasonable considering the evaluations are subjective . The results are the majority votes of the binary scores . In the static evaluation , we sample 300 responses for each model from the test set ( mixing seen and unseen ) . The responses can come from any turn in a conversation . We show the results in Figure 2 . Our largest model with 762 M is clearly preferred by human evaluators on almost all metrics and approaches human performance . By training a larger model and increasing the training size , the gap might be further closed . In the interactive evaluation , humans can chat with any topic but restricted in the movie domain . We conduct an online Turing test where one side is always a human participant not aware whom he is talking with . The other side could be either Mitsuku , XiaoIce 13 , our model ( 762 M with pretraining ) or a real human . Mitsuku interacts in English , so we hire only English native speakers for the experiment . We collect 100 conversations for all models . Humans can stop interacting once they ( 1 ) find the other side is a machine or ( 2 ) reaches the maximum turn of 20 . Responses from all models are later passed to the third party to judge the scores . The results are shown on the right of Figure 2 . Our model outperforms Mitsuku and XiaoIce by a large margin . As Mitsuku and XiaoIce are designed to be open - domain chatbots , restricting to be on the movie domain will give our model some natural advantage . We can also notice that Mitsuku and XiaoIce almost never produce fake facts . The cost is the extremely low ratio of informative responses since they tend to behave over - safely and will only answer it when they are 100 % sure . Our model is closer to humans in that sense . It will converse actively at some risk of containing fact errors . Figure 3 : Change of SEA and FIA as the turn proceeds . 13 We use its chat service through Weibo . It will sometimes generate responses containing keywords like " XiaoIce " . We manually replace it to prevent disclosing its identity . Distance from Human Performance In the interactive evaluation , compared with human performance , our model loses a bit on sensibleness and factuality but wins on the other two . To investigate where our model fails , figure 3 visualizes the change of SSA ( Sensibleness - Engagement average ) and FIA ( Factuality - Informativeness average ) when the conversational turn proceeds . A good chatbot should balance well these skills ( Adiwardana et al , 2020 ) . SEA can reflect how it behaves as a general chatbot while FIA can better test its capability at incorporating domain knowledge . We can see a clear trend of decrease for all models . As for human performance , however , the score is quite consistent across turn rounds , implying a large improvement space for current models to deal with multi - turn context . In figure 4 , we further show the " dying distribution " of our model , namely , in which DA our model fails to pass the Turing test and thereby " dies " . Unsurprisingly , we can see the system fails mostly when informing facts or feelings . Only a small portion are from non - grounded chitchats ( other ) . This suggests the most crucial bottleneck lies in the interaction with movie - specific knowledge and seamlessly incorporating it into the response generation . We show some snippets of interactions with our model in Table 9 . The first two are failing cases labeled by humans as not factual and sensible . We can see the model struggles at replying to too specific facts . This is understandable since our knowledge base only provide short introductions and can not cover all what happened in the movie . The second case shows its shortcoming at handing long - range consistency . It still recommends the current movie when the user asks about " which other movie " . Employing larger knowledge bases and explicitly tracking the states by a checklist ( Kiddon et al , 2016 ) might potentially alleviate both issue . We also provide examples for controllable generations where the DA and aspect are manually assigned . As observed , the model shows decent performance at fitting both the dialogue con - text and specified conditions . This can be helpful when finer - grained control is needed .
We present MovieChats : a movie - domain chatbot built upon a large - scale , high - quality conversational corpus with fine - grained annotations . The model can be trained end - to - end with a simple unified language model architecture . We show that our model , powered by well - defined knowledge grounding , is able to approach human performance in some perspective , though still lagged behind when it comes to dealing with detailed knowledge or long - turn consistency .
A : 威尔史密斯演技真的很棒 ( Will Smith 's acting skill is really good ) . B : 他的当幸福来敲门太经典了 ( His The Pursuit of Happyness is a classic ) . A : 一直都挂在电影排行榜靠前的位置 ( That ' always among top ranked movies ) . B : 嗯嗯，这部电影真的很励志啊 ( Yes , it 's really motivational ) . A : 威尔史密斯也演出了很惨的感觉了 ( Will Smith plays like he is a real tragedy ) . B : 演技特别好 ( Yes , he acts pretty well ) .
Table 10 shows examples comparing our dataset and the others . As observed , forum conversations are mostly single - turn QA or comments . Current crowd - sourced datasets are either collected on constrained scenarios ( the scenario in ( Zhou et al , 2018b ) fixed the roles in a conversation as one introducer and one listener ) , or unconstrained but prompting people to deliberately connect knowledge . Our dataset simulates real - life conversations to the largest extent . We classify the utterances into one of 15 aspects .
As for the four human evaluation metrics . The first two will focus only on the conversational backbones without considering domain knowledge . The second two will check if the responses can provide informative and correct responses powered by domain knowledge . The detailed definitions of them are :
We thank anonymous reviewers and the dialogue system team at Wechat AI for their valuable comments . Xiaoyu Shen was funded by IMPRS - CS fellowship . Ernie Chang is supported by SFB 248 " Foundations of Perspicuous Software Systems " ( E2 ) .
All the three metrics are evaluated by three crow - workers each except for factuality . As evaluating factuality requires in - depth knowledge about one movie , it is quite difficult for random human evaluators to judge them . Even if we filter to only keep people who have watched a movie , it is hard to guarantee they can recall all the scenes in the movie . Therefore , the factuality check is only done by the person who performed this dialogue . In the static evaluation , it is evaluated by the annotator who produced the reference response . In the interactive evaluation , it is evaluated by the person who chat with the bot . It is nevertheless not accurate though . However , if the bot can cheat the human into believing its false information , it can also somehow be considered a " success " . We provide examples for guiding the human evaluators in Table 12 . Table 13 shows some interactive examples with humans . We observe Mitsuku can XiaoIce perform decently in single - turn exchanges but strongly struggle at understanding multi - turn user intents . Most conversations stop at turn 4 and will not move on .
