Morphotactics as Tier - Based Strictly Local Dependencies
It is commonly accepted that morphological dependencies are finite - state in nature . We argue that the upper bound on morphological expressivity is much lower . Drawing on technical results from computational phonology , we show that a variety of morphotactic phenomena are tierbased strictly local and do not fall into weaker subclasses such as the strictly local or strictly piecewise languages . Since the tier - based strictly local languages are learnable in the limit from positive texts , this marks a first important step towards general machine learning algorithms for morphology . Furthermore , the limitation to tier - based strictly local languages explains typological gaps that are puzzling from a purely linguistic perspective .
Different aspects of language have different levels of complexity . A lot of recent work in phonology ( see Graf ( 2010 ) , Heinz ( 2011a ; 2011b ; , Chandlee ( 2014 ) , Jardine ( 2015 ) and references therein ) argues that phonological well - formedness conditions are subregular and hence do not require the full power of finite - state automata . This is particularly noteworthy because computational phonology still relies heavily on finite - state methods ( Kaplan and Kay , 1994 ; Frank and Satta , 1998 ; Riggle , 2004 ) . A similar trend can be observed in computational syntax , where the original characterization as mildly context - sensitive string languages ( Huybregts , 1984 ; Shieber , 1985 ) is now being reinterpreted in terms of subregular tree languages ( Graf , 2012 ; Graf and Heinz , 2015 ) . Curiously missing from these investigations is morphology . While linguistic theories sometimes consider morphology a part of syntax , computational morphology recognizes that the weak generative capacity of morphology is much closer to phonology than syntax . Consequently , computational morphology involves largely the same finite - state methods as computational phonology ( Koskenniemi , 1983 ; Karttunen et al , 1992 ) . This raises the question whether morphology , just like phonology , uses only a fraction of the power furnished by these tools . A positive answer would have important repercussions for linguistics as well as natural language processing . The subregular classes identified in computational phonology are learnable in the limit from positive text ( Heinz et al , 2012 ) , so a subregular theory of morphology would greatly simplify machine learning while also explaining how morphological dependencies can be acquired by the child from very little input . A subregular model of morphology would also be much more restricted with respect to what processes are predicted to arise in natural languages . It thus provides a much tighter typological fit than the regular languages . In this paper , we argue that the subregular view of morphology is indeed correct , at least for morphotactics . Morphotactics describes the syntax of morphemes , that is to say , their linear order in the word and the conditions that license their presence or enforce their absence . One can distinguish surface morphotactics from underlying morphotactics . The former regulates the shape of the pronounced surface strings , whereas the latter is only concerned with the arrangements of the morphemes in the initial representation rather than how said morphemes are realized in specific environments . We only consider underlying morphotactics in this paper . The following example may clarify the distinction . In German , the past participle of a verb is formed via a circumfix . The first part of the circumfix is always the prefix ge - , whereas the second part may be the suffix - en or - t depending on the verb stem . In addition , the suffixes can also occur on their own , e.g. on infinitives or the third person singular form of the verb . Surface morphotactics thus has to ensure that ge - always appears with one of these two suffixes , and that the form of the suffix matches the stem . At the same time , it does not need to worry about matching - en or - t with ge - since these forms can occur independently as realizations of different morphemes . Underlying morphotactics , on the other hand , is unaware of the surface realizations and only knows that some abstract prefix GE - must always occur with the abstract suffix - EN , and the other way round . The fact that - EN has a surface realization that is indistinguishable from the infinitival marker , which does not require the prefix GE - , is irrelevant for underlying morphotactics . More succinctly : underlying morphotactics regulates the distribution of morphemes , surface morphotactics the distribution of allomorphs . This paper considers a variety of phenomenacircumfixation , variable affix ordering , unbounded prefixation - and concludes that they all belong to the class of tier - based strictly local languages . We first show that even though many morphotactic dependencies are strictly local , that is not the case for all of them ( Sec . 2.1 ) . While some of these outliers are strictly piecewise ( Sec . 2.2 ) , tier - based strictly local grammars are needed to handle the full range of data points ( Sec . 2.3 ) . This prompts our conjecture that all dependencies that are part of underlying morphotactics stay within the class of tier - based strictly local languages . We then use this hypothesis in Sec . 3 to explain two typological gaps with respect to compounding markers and circumfixation .
The regular languages are one of the best understood language classes , with many attractive properties . Yet it is often forgotten that this class properly includes many weaker ones ( McNaughton and Pappert , 1971 ) , some of which have recently attracted much interest in computational phonology . At the very bottom of the hierarchy one finds strictly local and strictly piecewise languages ( Rogers et al , 2010 ) , and a little bit higher up the tier - based strictly local languages ( Heinz et al , Regular Star - Free LTT LT SL PT SP TSL Figure 1 : The subregular hierarchy as given in Heinz et al ( 2011 ) ; language classes in dashed boxes are studied in this paper 2011 ) . The subregular hierarchy includes many other classes ( see Fig . 1 ) , but the previous three are noteworthy because they are conceptually simple and efficiently learnable in the limit from positive data ( Heinz et al , 2012 ; Jardine and Heinz , 2016 ) while also furnishing sufficient power for a wide range of phonological phenomena ( Heinz , 2015 ; Jardine , 2015 ) . In this section , we investigate the role of strictly local , strictly piecewise and tier - based strictly local patterns in morphotactics . We show that some but not all patterns are strictly local or strictly piecewise , whereas all typologically instantiated patterns seem to fit in the class of tier - based strictly local languages .
A string language L over alphabet Σ is strictly local ( SL ) iff there is some k N such that L is generated by a strictly k - local grammar G. Such a grammar consists of a finite set of k - grams , each one of which describes an illicit substring . More precisely , given a string w Σ * , letŵ k : = k w k ( where , / Σ ) and k - grams ( w ) : = { s | s is a substring ofŵ k−1 of length k } . Then G generates string w iff k - grams ( w ) ∩ G = . That is to say , G generates every string over Σ that does not contain an illicit substring . Most phonological dependencies can be described in strictly local terms - see Heinz ( 2015 ) for numerous examples . Consider for instance the well - known process of word - final obstruent devoicing that forces voiced obstruents at the end of the word to be realized as voiceless : moroz [ maros ] ' frost ' in Russian , Bad [ bat ] ' bath ' in German ) . If one considers phonotactics rather than mappings from underlying representations to surface forms , this is tantamount to a ban against word - final voiced obstruents . Said ban , in turn , is captured by a strictly 2 - local grammar G that contains all bigrams of the form v , with v a voiced obstruent . The specification of SL grammars can be simplified by applying mappings . In the case at hand , one could define a function f that replaces every voiced obstruent by the designated symbol ♦ so that the grammar G can be reduced to the single bigram ♦ . One has to be careful , though . The SL languages are not closed under relabelings , in fact , every regular language is the image of a strictly 2local language under some relabeling . However , the directionality of the ♦ - relabeling above is the opposite : first the relabeling is applied , and then the grammar filters out strings in the image of that relabeling . As long as the relabeling is a manyto - one map between alphabets ( and thus does not introduce distinctions that were n't already part of the original alphabet ) , this provably does not increase weak generative capacity for any of the formalisms discussed in this paper . We make use of such relabelings in the following sections in order to convert natural language patterns into more easily described formal languages . For morphotactics , though , this raises the issue how the size of the atomic units should be chosen . One could posit that morphology , just like phonology , treats every phonological segment as a symbol . In that case , stems and morphemes are strings of symbols . Alternatively , one may treat each morpheme , including stems , as an atomic symbol . This is an important decision when it comes to modeling the interactions of morphology and phonology such as phonologically conditioned allomorphy . Fortunately our results are independent of this choice , due to the productive nature of compounding . To better understand why different representations could in principle affect subregular complexity , note first that whether a stem is represented as a single , atomic symbol or as a sequence of phonological segments seems to determine if prefixes and suffixes might be separated by an unbounded amount of symbols . Consider a circumfix u - - v , where neither part of the affix may occur without the other . A concrete example is the nominalization circumfix ke - - an in Indonesian ( Mahdi , 2012 ; Sneddon , 1996 ) : ( 1 ) a. tingii high b. ke - NMN - tinggi high - an - NMN ' altitude ' If a stem is a single symbol x , then x and uxv are well - formed whereas ux and xv are not due to u - - v being a circumfix whose subparts can not occur in isolation . This generalization is easily captured by the strictly 3 - local grammar { xv , ux } . However , if stems are sequences of symbols , then the well - formed patterns are of the form x + or ux + v ( since the length of stems is in principle unbounded ) . The illict strings , on the other hand , are of the form x + v and ux + . But no strictly local grammar can generate the former patterns without also generating the latter . That is due to the strictly local languages being closed under suffix substitution closure . Suffix Substitution Closure Language L is SL iff there exists a k N such that for all strings u 1 , v 1 , u 2 , v 2 and any string x of length k − 1 , if u 1 xv 1 , u 2 xv 2 L , then u 1 xv 2 L. If there is no upper bound on the length of stems , then we can infer from x k L and ux k v L that both x k v L and ux k L. It seems , then , that circumfixes are strictly local only if each stem is an atomic symbol . But this line of reasoning erroneously assumes that the circumfix can only apply to individual stems , which ignores the availability of compounding . Returning to Indonesian , we see that its nominalization marker is not restricted to single stems and can also apply to compounds . ( 2 ) a. maha big siswa pupil ' student ' b. ke - NMN - maha big siswa pupil - an - NMN ' student affairs ' Compounding is an unbounded process , so even if each stem is mapped to a single symbol x , one ends up with the same patterns as with the segmental mapping approach : x + and ux + v are well - formed , while ux + and x + v are ill - formed . Since the choice of representation does not affect the subregular complexity results , we opt for the segmental mapping , which does not require us to use compounding in all our natural language data points . The details of the segmental mapping are as follows : within a stem , all segments are replaced by some distinguished symbol . We choose x for this purpose . All morphemes , on the other hand , are replaced by single symbols . Symbols are chosen to maximize clarity of exposition , so that we sometimes assign each morpheme a unique symbol and sometimes map irrelevant morphemes to a randomly chosen filler symbol . For some linguistic phenomena we follow linguistic convention in assuming that the underlying representations contain additional distinguished symbols to mark the edges of the stem - this will be mentioned explicitly for all relevant cases . The preceding discussion yielded as a nice sideresult that circumfixation is not SL unless each part of the circumfix can also occur on its own . Few circumfixes display that kind of freedom , wherefore not all aspects of morphotactics are SL . However , large swaths of morphology still are , with a couple of examples from English given below : ( 3 ) a. una - do xx b. break xxxxx - able - b ( 4 ) a. punch xxxxx - ed - c b. put xxx - ε - c Any kind of affix that only consists of one part and whose distribution is determined within a locally bounded domain is part of strictly local morphotactics . Although we did not carry out any rigorous quantitative comparisons , we believe the majority of morphological dependencies to belong to this class .
While SL covers a wide range of phenomena , it is n't just circumfixes that require more power . Problems arise whenever a dependency involves both the domain of prefixes and the domain of suffixes - because they can be separated by arbitrarily many symbols - and such configurations are not limited to circumfixes . In most languages the ordering of affixes tends to be fixed , but there are languages in which affixes are ordered relatively freely and do not follow a strict template , thereby creating non - local dependencies . Let us consider the following data from Swahili : ( 5 ) a. a - This data is taken from Stump ( 2016 ) . Based on his discussion of vyo , the following forms are ungrammatical . Different generalizations can be drawn from these data sets , some of which are more complex than others . The first generalization states that vyo is only licensed if it follows either a segment that is part of a stem or the prefix si . This is a strictly 2 - local pattern , and it explains both ( 6a ) and ( 6b ) . Alternatively , one may conclude that ( 6b ) is ill - formed because there is more than one occurrence of vyo . Such a ban against two instances of vyo is also supported by the ill - formedness of ( 6c ) , which is unexpected under the first generalization . Preventing the presence of two instances of vyo is beyond the power of any SL grammar G : if uvx + c ⊂ L ( G ) and uwcvx + ⊂ L ( G ) , then L ( G ) must also contain strings of the form uwcvx + c ( due to suffix substitution closure ) . The second generalization is similar to the phonological requirement that no word may contain more than one primary stress , which is strictly piecewise ( SP ; Heinz ( 2010 ) , Rogers et al ( 2010 ) ) . SP grammars work exactly the same as SL grammar except that instead of illicit substrings they list illicit subsequences . Given a string w , its set of k - sequences is k - seqs ( w ) : = s | s is a subsequence ofŵ k−1 of length k . A strictly k - piecewise grammar G is a finite set of k - grams over Σ ∪ { , } , and the language generated by G is L : = { w | k - seqs ( w ) ∩ G = } . The ban against two occurrences of vyo is strictly 2 - piecewise - the grammar only need to contain the bigram vyo vyo . The intersection of the strictly 2 - local and strictly 2 - piecewise languages does not contain ( 6a ) - ( 6c ) , as desired . But it does contain ( 6d ) . Both generalizations miss that even though vyo can occur as a prefix and as a suffix , it is a prefix if and only if si is present . This kind of conditional positioning can not be captured by SL grammars , and the culprit is once again suffix substitution closure . But SP grammars by themselves are not sufficient , either . Suppose we increase the locality rank from 2 to 3 and include si x vyo as an illicit subsequence in our SP grammar . This forces vyo to be a prefix in the presence of si . However , it still incorrectly allows for vyo to be a prefix in the absence of si . No SP grammar can prevent this outcome . The problem is that any word of the form u vyo v x contains only subsequences that also occur in the well - formed u si vyo v x. Consequently , any SP grammar that generates the latter also generates the former . It is only in combination with the SL grammar that we can correctly rule out prefix vyo without a preceding si . Swahili 's inflectional morphology thus provides evidence that SL is not enough to handle all aspects of morphotactics and must be supplemented by some mechanism to handle long - distance dependencies , with SP being one option . But even the combination of SL and SP can not capture all non - local dependencies . In Swahili , the inability of SP mechanisms to enforce the presence of si with prefix vyo could be remedied by the strictly local requirement that vyo may only occur after si or a stem . This elegant interaction of SL and SP is not always possible , however . The most noteworthy case are circumfixes . Consider some arbitrary circumfix u - - v. Clearly all subsequences of ux + are subsequences of ux + v , so if the latter is generated by some SP grammar then by definition the former must be , too . The underlying problem is that SP grammars can only enforce the absence of an affix , not its presence . Circumfixes where the presence of one affix entails the presence of the other affix thus are not SP . It seems that we must move higher up the subregular hierarchy in order to accommodate circumfixes , which will also have the welcome side - effect of providing a simpler account for the distribution of Swahili vyo .
As pointed out in the previous section , the Swahili pattern is n't too dissimilar from the phonological requirement that no word has more than one primary stress . However , the distribution of primary stress is more specific than that : every phonological word has exactly one primary stress . Ensuring the presence of at least one primary stress is beyond the capabilities of SP grammars - once again this holds because every subsequence of an ill - formed word without primary stress is also a subsequence of the well - formed counterpart with exactly one primary stress . A better model for primary stress assignment is furnished by tier - based strictly local ( TSL ; Heinz et al ( 2011 ) ) grammars , which also happen to be powerful enough for circumfixation . A TSL grammar is an SL grammar that operates over a tier , a specific substructure of the string . Given a tier - alphabet T ⊆ Σ , let E T be a mapping that erases all symbols in a string that do not belong to T . First , E T ( ε ) = ε . Then for a Σ and w Σ * , E T ( aw ) : = a E T ( w ) if a T E T ( w ) otherwise The T - tier of a string w is its image under E T . A tier - based strictly k - local grammar G is a pair K , T where K is a strictly k - local grammar over tier - alphabet T . The grammar generates the language L ( G ) : = { w | E T ( w ) L ( K ) } . Note that every SL language is a TSL language with T = Σ. The distribution of primary stress is tier - based strictly 2 - local . Assuming that primary stress is indicated as some diacritic on symbols , the tieralphabet T contains all symbols with this diacritic . This is tantamount to projecting a tier that only contains segments with primary stress . The grammar then contains the bigram to block words with an empty primary stress tier , i.e. words that contain no primary stress . In addition , every bigram uv for u , v T is added to rule out words with more than one primary stress . The requirement of exactly one primary stress per word thus boils down to having exactly one segment on the primary stress tier , which is a strictly local dependency over that tier . The Swahili pattern from the previous section can also be analyzed as tier - based strictly local , and the same is true for circumfixation . For Swahili we project a tier that contains only the affix vyo , and we do not allow more than one segment on this tier . As a result , vyo occurs at most once per word . To ensure that vyo is a prefix whenever si is present , we furthermore postulate a marker # that indicates the edges of the stem . The projected tier then includes all instances of vyo , si and the marker # ( of which there are exactly two ) . On this tier , the 4 - gram si##vyo correctly excludes all ill - formed cases of vyo as a suffix , whereas vyo # # prevents vyo from occurring as a prefix in the absence of si . Adapting the ban against two instances of vyo to this slightly expanded tier is left as an exercise to the reader . In order to regulate the distribution of circumfixes such as u - - v , we have to project a tier that contains only those subparts u and v. If the affixes can never occur by themselves , then we block v and u . Removing one of those two bigrams creates asymmetric cases where one of the affixesbut not the other - is sometimes allowed to be present by itself . We also add uu and vv to block strings where the prefix parts outnumber or are outnumbered by the suffix parts of the circumfix . Note that this has the side effect of also prohibiting unbounded circumfixation , a point we return to in Sec . 3.2 . At this point , we can safely say that natural language morphotactics is at least TSL ( barring the discovery of any intermediate classes between SL and TSL , or SP and TSL ) . SL is sufficiently powerful for large parts of morphology , but any kind of dependency that involves both prefixes and suffixes is likely not SL . Some patterns that are not SL are SP , but these also turn out to be TSL . To the best of our knowledge , there are no morphological dependencies that are SP but not TSL ( even though the two language classes are incomparable ) . We thus put forward the following conjecture : Subregular Morphotactics All morphotactic dependencies are tier - based strictly local . As any universal claim about the real world , our conjecture can not be proved conclusively - the fact that no counterexamples have been encountered does not guarantee that counterexamples will never be encountered . But there are additional reasons to consider TSL a better fit for morphotactics than one of the more powerful classes . Moving beyond TSL in the subregular hierarchy would take us into the class of star - free languages , which are equivalent to the string sets definable in first - order logic with the transitive closure of the successor relation . As mentioned before , every language that is generated by a tier - based strictly k - local grammar can be identified in the limited from positive text , provided the learner knows the value of k. The class of star - free languages , on the other hand , is not learnable in the limit from positive text . It also makes largely incorrect typological predictions : Unlike TSL , the class of starfree languages is closed under union and relative complement . But the union or relative complement of two morphotactic systems attested in natural languages rarely yields linguistically plausible morphotactics . Similarly , it is trivial to write firstorder formulas for highly unnatural patterns , e.g. that every word containing two instances of a but less than three bs must contain no substring of the form cd + c. These points show that moving from TSL to star - free means losing essential properties of natural language morphotactics . Future work may of course identify more adequate classes in the vicinity of TSL . Given our current , more limited knowledge of the subregular hierarchy , however , the strongest empirically defensible stance is that tier - based strict locality is both sufficient and necessary for natural language morphotactics .
If the subregular hypothesis is correct , then no morphological pattern may exceed the computational power furnished by tier - based strictly local grammars . In particular , whenever the combination of two attested TSL patterns is not TSL , that combination should not be attested . The subreg - ular hypothesis thus provides a principled explanation for typological gaps . In this section we consider two such cases related to compounding markers and the limits of circumfixation .
Compounding describes the combination of two or more stems to form a compound lexeme , where the stems may belong to different categories . Languages differ with respect to whether compounding is ( at least sometimes ) explicitly marked . In the following we exhibit two TSL compounding patterns from Turkish and Russian whose combination is not typologically attested . We then explain why this combined pattern is not TSL , deriving the otherwise puzzling typological gap . Turkish possessive compounds ( see Aslan and Altan ( 1998 ) for a detailed description ) obey the general pattern stem - stem + - o , where o stands for the compounding marker - sI. Assuming once again the presence of the special symbol # - which marked the edges of stems in the previous section - we can show this pattern to also be tier - based strictly 2 - local . In this case , the illicit bigrams are # # , oo , o , and o . Observe that we can remove the first one of these bigrams to allow for cases where the compounding marker is optional . One may wonder now whether it is possible for natural languages to display a combination of the compounding patterns seen with Russian and Turkish . From a linguistic perspective , the expected answer is yes . If compounding can be marked by a suffix as in Turkish , and compounding can introduce a marker with each step as in Russian , then it should be possible to introduce a suffix with each compounding step . But to the best of our knowledge , no language instantiates this system . From a computational perspective , on the other hand , this typological gap is expected because the described system is not TSL - as a matter of fact , it is n't even regular . A language L that suffixes a marker to a compound with each compounding step would produce compounds where the number of compound markers is proportional to the number of stems . Let h be a map that replaces all stems by s , all compound markers by o , and all other material by some other symbol . Intersecting h ( L ) with the regular language s + o + yields the language s m o n , m > n. This string set is easily shown to be context - free ( e.g. via the Myhill - Nerode theorem ) , and since regular languages are closed under homomorphisms and intersection , it follows that L can not be regular . But every TSL language is regular , so the combination of Russian and Turkish outlined above is not TSL . The absence of this compounding pattern in the typology of natural languages thus lends further support to our conjecture that natural language morphotactics is limited to TSL dependencies .
Circumfixation already played an important role in motivating TSL as a reasonable lower bound on how much power is required for natural lan - guage morphotactics . We now show that just like compounding markers , circumfixation also suggests that TSL marks the upper bound on required expressivity . In particular , unbounded affixation is widely attested across languages , whereas unbounded circumfixation is not . A number of languages allow some of their affixes to occur multiple times . For instance , the Russian temporal prefix posle - can appear iteratively in the beginning of a word like zavtra ' tomorrow ' . The very same pattern is also found in German , with morgen ' tomorrow ' , über - morgen ' the day after tomorrow ' , über - über - morgen ' the day after the day after tomorrow ' , and so on . German also has the pattern ur - groß - vater , ur - ur - groß - vater , which is the analog of English great grandfather , great great grandfather and its iterations ( various linguistic diagnostics show that these are morphological words rather than phrases ) . Note that in all those cases it is impossible to insert other prefixes between the iterated prefix : * ur - groß - ur - ur - großvater . In sum , some affixes can be freely iterated as long as no other affixes intervene . These patterns are all TSL by virtue of being strictly 2 - local . We illustrate this claim with German . We ignore the problem of how groß can be restricted to occur only with specific stems ( if stems are atomic symbols , this is trivial , otherwise it requires a strictly k - local grammar over the string of phonological segments where k is large enough to contain both groß and the relevant stems ) . We also assume , as before , that there is some marker # that marks the edges of stems . Then to ensure that the relevant strings of prefixes follow the pattern ur * groß # , the sequences großur , großgroß , and ur # are marked as illicit . Unbounded prefixation thus stays within the class of TSL dependencies . An interesting counterpart to Russian and German is Ilocano ( Galvez Rubino , 1998 ) , which uses the circumfix ka - - an with a function similar to posle andüber . As before , there is little linguistic reason why unbounded circumfixation should be blocked . If affixation can be unbounded to construct more and more complex versions of day after tomorrow , and day after tomorrow can be derived via circumfixation , then one would expect unbounded circumfixation to be a viable option . But once again there is a clear computational reason as to why this does not happen : the corresponding morphotactic system would no longer be TSL . Let L be some minor variant of Russian where posle - is instead a circumfix pos - - le . As before we let h be a homomorphism that replaces all stems by s , the two parts of the circumfix by o , and all other material by some distinct symbol . The intersection of h ( L ) with the regular language o + so + is the context - free string set o n so n . Therefore L is supra - regular and can not be tier - based strictly local . Unbounded circumfixation simply can not be reconciled with the subregular hypothesis .
The received view is that all of morphology is easily modeled with finite - state machines ( Koskenniemi , 1983 ; Karttunen et al , 1992 ) . We contend that this view is overly generous and that tighter bounds can be established , at least for specific subparts of morphology . Morphotactics defines the restrictions on the possible orderings of morphological units , and we argued based on data from typologically diverse languages that the power of natural language morphotactics is severely restricted : Subregular Morphotactics All morphotactic dependencies are tier - based strictly local . In contrast to regular languages , tier - based strictly local languages are efficiently learnable in the limit from positive text ( Heinz et al , 2012 ; Jardine and Heinz , 2016 ) . Our result thus marks a first step towards provably correct machine learning algorithms for natural language morphology . Admittedly , morphotactics is just one of several parts of morphology . We put aside allomorphy and only considered the distribution of morphemes in the underlying forms . Even within that narrow area we did not thoroughly explore all facets , for instance infixation and incorporation . Nonetheless our results show that the success of the subregular perspective need not be limited to phonology . At least morphotactics can be insightfully studied through this lens , too . In addition , there has been a lot of progress in extending the subregular hierarchy from languages to transductions ( see Chandlee ( 2014 ) and references therein ) , and we are confident that these results will allow us to expand the focus of investigation from morphotactics to morphology at large . It will also be interesting to see how uniform the complexity bounds are across different modules of morphology . In phonology , suprasegmental dependencies tend to be more complex than segmental ones ( Jardine , 2015 ) . Most constructions in this paper involve derivational morphology , but the affix vyo in Swahili is related to inflectional morphology and turned out to have a distribution that is neither SL nor SP ( although it can be captured with a combination of the two ) . So both derivational and inflectional morphotactics occupy points in TSL \ ( SL ∪ SP ) . In this regard it is also worth noting that some phonological processes such as tone plateauing belong to SP \ TSL , whereas no morphological dependencies seem to be part of this subclass . We hope to address these and related issues in future work .
