The AFRL WMT19 Systems : Old Favorites and New Tricks
This paper describes the Air Force Research Laboratory ( AFRL ) machine translation systems and the improvements that were developed during the WMT19 evaluation campaign .
This year , we refine our approach to training popular neural machine translation toolkits , experiment with a new domain adaptation technique and again measure improvements in performance on the Russian - English language pair .
As part of the 2019 Conference on Machine Translation ( Bojar et al , 2019 ) news - translation shared task , the AFRL Human Language Technology team participated in the Russian - English portion of the competition .
We build on our strategies from last year ( Gwinnup et al , 2018 ) , adding additional language ID based data processing and optimizing subword segmentation strategies .
For Russian - English we again submitted an entry comprising our best systems trained with Marian ( Junczys - Dowmunt et al , 2018 ) , Sockeye ( Hieber et al , 2017 ) with Elastic Weight Consolidation ( EWC ) ( Thompson et al , 2019 ) , OpenNMT ( Klein et al , 2018 ) , and Moses ( Koehn et al , 2007 ) combined using the Jane system combination method ( Freitag et al , 2014 ) .
We used and preprocess data as outlined in Gwinnup et al ( 2018 ) .
For all systems trained , we applied either byte - pair encoding ( BPE ) ( Sennrich et al , 2016 ) or SentencePiece ( Kudo and Richardson , 2018 ) subword strategies to address the vocabulary - size problem . 
For this year , we also employed a language ID filtering step for the BPE - based systems .
Using the pre - built language ID model developed by the authors of fastText ( Joulin et al , 2016a , b ) , we developed a utility that examined the source and target sentence pairs and discarded that pair if either side fell below 0.8 1 probability of the desired language .
We applied this filtering to all provided parallel corpora , removing 33.7 % of lines .
This process was particularly effective when used to filter the Paracrawl corpus where 57.1 % of lines were removed .
Pre and post - filtering line counts for various corpora are shown in Table 1 .
Total Retained A comparison with the organizer - provided parallel training data used in our WMT18 system ( which is largely the same as the provided parallel data for WMT19 in the Russian - English language pair ) on baseline Marian transformer systems with identical training conditions show that aggressive language ID based filtering yields an approximate +1 BLEU point improvement as measured by SacreBLEU ( Post , 2018 ) .
These results are shown in Table 2 .
One of the problems faced when addressing the closed - vocabulary problem is the granularity of the subword units either produced by SentencePiece or BPE .
To that end , we examined varying the number of BPE merge operations in order to determine an optimal setting to maximize performance for the Russian - English language pair .
For the OpenNMT - based systems , a vocabulary size of 32k entries was employed during training of a SentencePiece segmentation model 2 .
This vocabulary size was determined empirically from the training data . 
Alternatively , for the BPE - based systems , we systematically examined varying sizes of BPE merge operations and vocabulary sizes in 10k increments from 30k to 80k .
Results in Table 3 show that 40k BPE merge operations perform best across all test sets decoded for this language pair .
All subsequent Marian experiments in this work utilize this 40k BPE training corpus .
This year , we focused system - building efforts on the Marian , Sockeye , OpenNMT , and Moses toolkits , having explored a variety of parameters , data , and conditions .
While most of our experimentation builds off of previous years ' efforts , we did examine domain adaptation via continued training , including Elastic Weight Consolidation ( EWC ) ( Thompson et al , 2019 ) .
As with last year 's efforts , we train multiple Marian ( Junczys - Dowmunt et al , 2018 ) models with both University of Edinburgh 's " bi - deep " and Google 's transformer ( Vaswani et
al , 2017 ) architectures .
Network hyperparameters are the same as detailed in Gwinnup et al ( 2018 ) .
We again use newstest2014 as the validation set during training . 
Utilizing the best - performing BPE parameters from Section 2.2 , we first trained a baseline system in each of the two network architectures , noting the Transformer system 's better performance of +0.82 BLEU on average across decoded test sets .
An additional six distinct transformer models were then independently 3 trained for use in ensemble decoding .
We then ensemble decoded test sets with all eight models . 
Marian typically assigns each model used in ensemble decoding a feature weight of 1.0 ; thus each model contributes equally to the decoding process .
Borrowing from our Moses training approach , we utilize a multi - iteration decode and optimize feature weights using the " Expected Corpus BLEU " ( ECB ) metric with the Drem optimizer ( Erdmann and Gwinnup , 2015 ) .
We experimented using newstest2014 and newstest2017 as tuning sets - 2017 did not help performance , but using 2014 did improve performance by up to +0.9 BLEU 4 over the non - tuned ensemble . 
Scores for all the above - mentioned systems are shown in Table 4 .
The best - performing ensemble ( ensemble tune14 ) was used in system combination .
For our Sockeye ( Hieber et al , 2017 ) systems , we experimented with continued training ( Luong and Manning , 2015 ; Sennrich et al , 2015 ) - a means to specialize a model in a new domain after a period of training on a general domain .
One downside of utilizing continued training is the model adapts " too - well " to the new domain at the expense of performance in the original domain ( Freitag and Al - Onaizan , 2016 ) .
One method to mitigate this performance drop is to prevent certain parameters of the network from changing with Elastic Weight Consolidation ( EWC ) ( Kirkpatrick et al , 2017 ) .
Thompson et al ( 2019 ) ference in style and content .
Here , we created a news subdomain corpus from the newstest2014 through newstest2017 test sets .
The intuition is that more current events will be discussed in these test sets than the remainder of the provided training corpora , allowing better adaptation of new events in the newest test sets ( newstest2018 and newstest2019 . ) 
We first trained a baseline transformer system using the best - performing BPE parameters from Section 2.2 , 512 - dimension word embeddings , 6 layer encoder and decoder , 8 attention heads , label smoothing and transformer attention dropout of 0.1 .
We then continue - train a model on the adaptation set described above .
We also followed the Sockeye EWC training procedure , producing a model more resilient to overfitting due to continued training .
Results for these systems are shown in Table 5 . 
We see that the baseline Sockeye transformer model performs similarly to the baseline singlemodel Marian transformer system shown in Table 4 .
The continued - training system ( con't train ) system predictably overfit on newstest2014 as expected , since that test set is a part of the adaptation set .
Likewise , performance on the out - ofdomain newstest2018 also dropped as a result of overfitting .
The best - performing EWC system 5 5 EWC applied with weight - decay of 0.001 and learning - actually improved performance on 2018 with lesspronounced overfitting on 2014 .
For system combination outlined later in Section 4 , we decoded test sets with an ensemble of the four highest - scoring model checkpoints from the best EWC training run .
Our first Open - NMT system was trained using the Transformer architecture with the default " Trans - formerBig " settings as described in Vaswani et
al ( 2017 ) : 6 layers of 1024 units , 16 attention heads .
Dropout rates of 0.3 for layers and 0.1 for attention heads and relu 's .
Training data for this system utilized the training corpus from our WMT17 Russian - English system ( Gwinnup et al , 2017 ) consisting of provided parallel and backtranslated rate of 0.00001 data .
This data was then processed with a joint 32k word vocabulary SentencePiece model .
For our second OpenNMT system , we first trained language - specific , 32k word vocabularies using SentencePiece .
WMT news test data from all years except 2014 and 2017 were used to train Senten - cePiece .
These data , with the addition of the language ID filtered ParaCrawl corpus outlined in Section 2.1 , were used for training the system .
WMT news test data from 2014 was used for validation .
OpenNMT - tf was used to create the system , using the stock " Transformer " model .
As in previous years , we trained a phrase - based Moses ( Koehn et al , 2007 ) system with the same data as the Marian system outlined in Section 3.1 in order to provide diversity for system combination .
This system employed a hierarchical reordering model ( Galley and Manning , 2008 ) and 5 - gram operation sequence model ( Durrani et al , 2011 ) .
The 5 - gram English language model was trained with KenLM on all permissable monolingual English news - crawl data .
The BPE model used was applied to both the parallel training data and the language modeling corpus .
System weights were tuned with the Drem ( Erdmann and Gwinnup , 2015 ) optimizer using the " Expected Corpus BLEU "
( ECB ) metric .
Jane system combination ( Freitag et al , 2014 ) was employed to combine outputs from the best systems from each approach outlined above .
Individual component system and final combination scores are shown in Table 6 for cased , detokenized BLEU and BEER 2.0 ( Stanojević and Sima'an , 2014 ) .
We submitted the final 5 - system combination outlined in Section 4 and the four - checkpoint EWC ensemble detailed in Section 3.2 to the Russian - English portion of the WMT19 news task evaluation .
Selected newstest2019 automatic scores from the WMT Evaluation Matrix 6 are shown in Table 7 .
We presented a series of improvements to our Russian - English systems , including improved preprocessing and domain adaptation .
Clever remixing of older techniques from the phrasebased MT era enabled improvements in ensembled neural decoding .
Lastly , we performed system combination to leverage benefits from these new techniques and favorite approaches from previous years .
