Invited Speaker
The Linguistic Annotation Workshop ( LAW ) is organized annually by the Association for Computational Linguistics ' Special Interest Group for Annotation ( ACL SIGANN ) . It provides a forum to facilitate the exchange and propagation of research results concerned with the annotation , manipulation , and exploitation of corpora ; work towards harmonisation and interoperability from the perspective of the increasingly large number of tools and frameworks for annotated language resources ; and work towards a consensus on all issues crucial to the advancement of the field of corpus annotation . These proceedings include papers that were presented at LAW XIII , held in conjunction with the annual meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics ( ACL ) in Florence , Italy , on August 1 , 2019 . The series is now in its thirteenth year . The first workshop took place in 2007 at the ACL in Prague . Since then , the LAW has been held every year , consistently drawing substantial participation ( both in terms of paper / poster submissions and participation in the actual workshop ) providing evidence that the LAW 's overall focus continues to be an important area of interest in the field . This year 's LAW has received 52 submissions , out of which 28 papers have been accepted to be presented at the workshop , 10 as talks and 18 as posters . In addition to oral and poster paper presentations , LAW XIII also features an invited talk by Rebecca Passonneau and a discussion session . Our thanks go to SIGANN , our organizing committee , for its continuing organization of the LAW workshops , and to the ACL 2019 workshop chairs for their support . Also , we thank Jet Hoek , the LAW XIII publications chair , for her invaluable help with these proceedings . Most of all , we would like to thank all the authors for submitting their papers to the workshop , and our program committee members for their dedication and their thoughtful reviews .
This special theme considers the marking of information quality in discourse , i.e. , annotations that mark how the speaker / writer expresses assessments . These assessments may be explicit and/or implicit in discourse , and may reflect positions , beliefs , opinions , appraisals and/or assessments about written or spoken propositions , for example , how a politician shows in discourse the degree of truthfulness in one of his / her electoral promises , or how a reporter shows his / her degree of belief in what the politician stated . This might include the annotation of devices such as hedges ( " Donald claims that the crowd size , if you can really trust him to measure it , was enormous . " ) , committed belief ( " The winners of the contest will be announced tomorrow . " ) or attitudes ( " It is with great sadness that we have learnt about the death of 6 people in the accident . " ) .
Workshop chairs
