Proceedings of the 24th Conference on Computational Natural Language Learning , pages 455–475 Online , November 19 - 20 , 2020 .
c  2020 Association for Computational Linguistics https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/P17455On the Computational Power of Transformers and its Implications in Sequence Modeling Satwik Bhattamishra Arkil Patel Navin Goyal Microsoft Research India ft - satbh , t - arkpat , navingo g@microsoft.com
Abstract Transformers are being used extensively across several sequence modeling tasks .
Signiﬁcant research effort has been devoted to experimentally probe the inner workings of Transformers .
However , our conceptual and theoretical understanding of their power and inherent limitations is still nascent .
In particular , the roles of various components in Transformers such as positional encodings , attention heads , residual connections , and feedforward networks , are not clear .
In this paper , we take a step towards answering these questions .
We analyze the computational power as captured by Turing - completeness .
We ﬁrst provide an alternate and simpler proof to show that vanilla Transformers are Turing - complete and then we prove that Transformers with only positional masking and without any positional encoding are also Turing - complete .
We further analyze the necessity of each component for the Turing - completeness of the network ; interestingly , we ﬁnd that a particular type of residual connection is necessary .
We demonstrate the practical implications of our results via experiments on machine translation and synthetic tasks .
1 Introduction Transformer ( Vaswani et al . , 2017 ) is a recent selfattention based sequence - to - sequence architecture which has led to state of the art results across various NLP tasks including machine translation ( Ott et al . , 2018 ) , language modeling ( Radford et al . , 2018 ) and question answering ( Devlin et al . , 2019 ) .
Although a number of variants of Transformers have been proposed , the original architecture still underlies these variants .
While the training and generalization of machine learning models such as Transformers are the central goals in their analysis , an essential prerequisite to this end is characterization of the computational POS(1 ) POS(2 ) POS(3 ) ( a ) ( b)Figure 1 : ( a ) Self - Attention Network with positional encoding , ( b ) Self - Attention Network with positional masking without any positional encoding power of the model : training a model for a certain task can not succeed if the model is computationally incapable of carrying out the task .
While the computational capabilities of recurrent networks ( RNNs ) have been studied for decades ( Kolen and Kremer , 2001 ; Siegelmann , 2012 ) , for Transformers we are still in the early stages .
The celebrated work of Siegelmann and Sontag ( 1992 ) showed , assuming arbitrary precision , that RNNs are Turing - complete , meaning that they are capable of carrying out any algorithmic task formalized by Turing machines .
Recently , P ´ erez et al .
( 2019 ) have shown that vanilla Transformers with hard - attention can also simulate Turing machines given arbitrary precision .
However , in contrast to RNNs , Transformers consist of several components and it is unclear which components are necessary for its Turing - completeness and thereby crucial to its computational expressiveness .
The role of various components of the Transformer in its efﬁcacy is an important question for further improvements .
Since the Transformer does not process the input sequentially , it requires some form of positional information .
Various positional encoding schemes have been proposed to capture order information ( Shaw et al . , 2018 ; Dai et al . , 2019 ; Huang et al . , 2018 ) .
At the same time , on
456machine translation , Yang et al .
( 2019 ) showed that the performance of Transformers with only positional masking ( Shen et al . , 2018 ) is comparable to that with positional encodings .
In case of positional masking ( Fig . 1 ) , as opposed to explicit encodings , the model is only allowed to attend over preceding inputs and no additional positional encoding vector is combined with the input vector .
Tsai et al .
( 2019 ) raised the question of whether explicit encoding is necessary if positional masking is used .
Additionally , since P ´ erez et al . ( 2019 ) ’s
Turingcompleteness proof relied heavily on residual connections , they asked whether these connections are essential for Turing - completeness .
In this paper , we take a step towards answering such questions .
Below , we list the main contributions of the paper , We provide an alternate and arguably simpler proof to show that Transformers are Turingcomplete by directly relating them to RNNs .
More importantly , we prove that Transformers with positional masking and without positional encoding are also Turing - complete .
We analyze the necessity of various components such as self - attention blocks , residual connections and feedforward networks for Turing - completeness .
Figure 2 provides an overview .
We explore implications of our results on machine translation and synthetic tasks.1 2 Related Work Computational Power of neural networks has been studied since the foundational paper McCulloch and Pitts ( 1943 ) ; in particular , among sequence - to - sequence models , this aspect of RNNs has long been studied ( Kolen and Kremer , 2001 ) .
The seminal work by Siegelmann and Sontag ( 1992 ) showed that RNNs can simulate a Turing machine by using unbounded precision .
Chen et al .
( 2018 ) showed that RNNs with ReLU activations are also Turing - complete .
Many recent works have explored the computational power of RNNs in practical settings .
Several works ( Merrill et al . , 2020 ) , ( Weiss et al . , 2018 ) recently studied the ability of RNNs to recognize counter - like languages .
The capability of RNNs to recognize strings of balanced 1We have made our source code available at https://github.com/satwik77/Transformer-ComputationAnalysis.parantheses has also been studied ( Sennhauser and Berwick , 2018 ; Skachkova et al . , 2018 ) .
However , such analysis on Transformers has been scarce .
Theoretical work on Transformers was initiated by P´erez et al .
( 2019 ) who formalized the notion of Transformers and showed that it can simulate a Turing machine given arbitrary precision .
Concurrent to our work , there have been several efforts to understand self - attention based models ( Levine et al . , 2020 ;
Kim et al . , 2020 ) .
Hron et al .
( 2020 ) show that Transformers behave as Gaussian processes when the number of heads tend to inﬁnity .
Hahn ( 2020 ) showed some limitations of Transformer encoders in modeling regular and context - free languages .
It has been recently shown that Transformers are universal approximators of sequence - tosequence functions given arbitrary precision ( Yun et al . , 2020 ) .
However , these are not applicable2 to the complete Transformer architecture .
With a goal similar to ours , Tsai et al .
( 2019 ) attempted to study the attention mechanism via a kernel formulation .
However , a systematic study of various components of Transformers has not been done .
3 Deﬁnitions and Preliminaries All the numbers used in our computations will be from the set of rational numbers denoted Q.
For a sequenceX= ( x1;:::;xn ) , we setXj:= ( x1;:::;xj)for1jn .
We will work with an alphabet of sizem , with special symbols#and$signifying the beginning and end of the input sequence , respectively .
The symbols are mapped to vectors via a given ‘ base ’ embedding fb:!Qdb , wheredbis the dimension of the embedding .
E.g. , this embedding could be the one used for processing the symbols by the RNN .
We setfb ( # ) = 0dbandfb($ ) = 0db .
Positional encoding is a function pos : N!Qdb .
Together , these provide embedding for a symbol sat positionigiven byf(fb(s);pos(i ) ) , often taken to be simply fb(s ) + pos(i ) .
Vector JsK2Qm denotes one - hot encoding of a symbol s2. 3.1 RNNs We follow Siegelmann and Sontag ( 1992 ) in our deﬁnition of RNNs .
To feed the sequences 2Hahn ( 2020 ) and Yun et al .
( 2020 ) study encoder - only seqto - seq models with ﬁxed length outputs in which the computation halts as soon as the last symbol of the input is processed .
Our work is about the full Transformer ( encoder and decoder ) which is a seq - to - seq model with variable length sequence output in which the decoder starts operating sequentially after the encoder .
457s1s2:::sn2to the RNN , these are converted to the vectors x1;x2;:::;xnwherexi= fb(si ) .
The RNN is given by the recurrence ht= g(Whht 1+Wxxt+b ) , wheret1 , function g()is a multilayer feedforward network ( FFN ) with activation  , bias vectorb2Qdh , matrices Wh2QdhdhandWx2Qdhdb , andht2Qdh is the hidden state with given initial hidden state h0;dhis the hidden state dimension .
After the last symbol snhas been fed , we continue to feed the RNN with the terminal symbol fb($)until it halts .
This allows the RNN to carry out computation after having read the input .
A class of seq - to - seq neural networks is Turingcomplete if the class of languages recognized by the networks is exactly the class of languages recognized by Turing machines .
Theorem 3.1 .
( Siegelmann and Sontag , 1992 )
Any seq - to - seq function !computable by a Turing machine can also be computed by an RNN .
For details please see section B.1 in appendix .
3.2 Transformer Architecture Vanilla Transformer .
We describe the original Transformer architecture with positional encoding ( Vaswani et al . , 2017 ) as formalized by P ´ erez et al .
( 2019 ) , with some modiﬁcations .
All vectors in this subsection are from Qd .
The transformer , denoted Trans , is a seq - to - seq architecture .
Its input consists of ( i ) a sequence X= ( x1;:::;xn)of vectors , ( ii ) a seed vector y0 .
The output is a sequence Y= ( y1;:::;yr ) of vectors .
The sequence Xis obtained from the sequence ( s1;:::;sn)2nof symbols by using the embedding mentioned earlier : xi= f(fb(si);pos(i ) ) .
The transformer consists of composition of transformer encoder andtransformer decoder .
For the feedforward networks in the transformer layers we use the activation as in Siegelmann and Sontag ( 1992 ) , namely the saturated linear activation function(x)which takes value 0forx < 0 , valuex for0 < x < 1and value 1forx>1 .
This activation can be easily replaced by the standard ReLU activation via (x )
= ReLU(x) ReLU(x 1 ) .
Self - attention .
The self - attention mechanism takes as input ( i ) a query vectorq , ( ii ) a sequence ofkeyvectorsK= ( k1;:::;kn ) , and ( iii ) a sequence of value vectorsV= ( v1;:::;vn ) .
The q - attention over KandV , denoted Att(q;K;V ) , is a vectora=  1v1 +  2v2++  nvn , where ( i ) (  1 ; : : : ;  n ) = (fatt(q;k1);:::;fatt(q;kn ) ) .
( ii ) The normalization function :Qn!Qn 0is hardmax : forx= ( x1;:::;xn)2Qn , if the maximum value occurs rtimes among x1;:::;xn , then hardmax ( x)i:= 1 = rifxiis a maximum value andhardmax ( x)i:= 0otherwise .
In practice , the softmax is often used but its output values are in general not rational .
( iii ) For vanilla transformers , the scoring function fattused is a combination of multiplicative attention ( Vaswani et
al . , 2017 ) and a non - linear function : fatt(q;ki )
=    hq;kii  .
This was also used by P´erez et al .
( 2019 ) .
Transformer encoder .
Asingle - layer encoder is a function Enc(X; ) , with input X= ( x1;:::;xn)a sequence of vectors in Qd , and parameters.
The output is another sequence Z= ( z1;:::;zn)of vectors in Qd .
The parametersspecify functions Q();K();V( ) , andO( ) , all of type Qd!Qd .
The functions Q();K( ) ; andV()are linear transformations and O()an FFN .
For 1in , the output of the self - attention block is produced by ai= Att(Q(xi);K(X);V(X ) )
+ xi ( 1 ) This operation is also referred to as the encoderencoder attention block .
The output Zis computed byzi = O(ai ) + aifor1in .
The addition operations + xiand+aiare the residual connections .
The complete L - layer transformer encoder TEnc(L)(X; ) = ( Ke;Ve)has the same inputX= ( x1;:::;xn)as the single - layer encoder .
In contrast , its output Ke= ( ke 1;:::;ke n ) andVe= ( ve 1;:::ve n)contains two sequences .
TEnc(L)is obtained by composition of Lsinglelayer encoders : let X(0):=X , and for 0` L 1 , letX(`+1)= Enc(X(`);`)and ﬁnally , Ke = K(L)(X(L));Ve = V(L)(X(L ) ):
Transformer decoder .
The input to a singlelayer decoder is ( i ) ( Ke;Ve)output by the encoder , and ( ii ) sequence Y= ( y1;:::;yk)of vectors fork1 .
The output is another sequence Z= ( z1;:::;zk ) .
Similar to the single - layer encoder , a singlelayer decoder is parameterized by functions Q();K();V()andO()and is deﬁned by pt= Att(Q(yt);K(Yt);V(Yt ) )
+ yt;(2 ) at= Att(pt;Ke;Ve )
+ pt ; ( 3 ) zt = O(at ) + at ; where 1tk .
The operation in ( 2 ) will be
458referred to as the decoder - decoder attention block and the operation in ( 3 ) as the decoder - encoder attention block .
In ( 2 ) , positional masking is applied to prevent the network from attending over symbols which are ahead of them .
AnL - layer Transformer decoder TDecL((Ke;Ve);Y; ) = zis obtained by repeated application of Lsingle - layer decoders each with its own parameters , and a transformation functionF : Qd!Qdapplied to the last vector in the sequence of vectors output by the ﬁnal decoder .
Formally , for 0`L 1andY0:=Ywe have Y`+1= Dec((Ke;Ve);Y`;`);z = F(yL k ): Note that while the output of a single - layer decoder is a sequence of vectors , the output of an L - layer Transformer decoder is a single vector .
The complete Transformer .
The output Trans(X;y0 )
= Yis computed by the recurrence ~yt+1= TDec(TEnc ( X);(y0;y1;:::;yt ) ) , for0tr 1 .
We getyt+1by adding positional encoding : yt+1=~yt+1 + pos(t+ 1 ) .
Directional Transformer .
We denote the Transformer with only positional masking and no positional encodings as Directional Transformer and use them interchangeably .
In this case , we use standard multiplicative attention as the scoring function in our construction , i.e , fatt(q;ki ) = hq;kii .
The general architecture is the same as for the vanilla case ; the differences due to positional masking are the following .
There are no positional encodings .
So the input vectors xionly involve fb(si ) .
Similarly , yt=~yt .
In ( 1 ) , Att()is replaced byAtt(Q(xi);K(Xi);V(Xi))whereXi:= ( x1;:::;xi)for1in .
Similarly , in ( 3 ) , Att()is replaced by Att(pt;Ke t;Ve t ) .
Remark 1 .
Our deﬁnitions deviate slightly from practice , hard - attention being the main one since hardmax keeps the values rational whereas softmax takes the values to irrational space .
Previous studies have shown that soft - attention behaves like hard - attention in practice and Hahn ( 2020 ) discusses its practical relevance .
Remark 2 .
Transformer Networks with positional encodings are not necessarily equivalent in terms of their computational expressiveness ( Yun et al . , 2020 ) to those with only positional masking when considering the encoder only model ( as used in BERT and GPT-2 ) .
Our results in Section 4.1 show their equivalence in terms of expressiveness for the complete seq - to - seq architecture.4 Primary Results 4.1 Turing - Completeness Results In light of Theorem 3.1 , to prove that Transformers are Turing - complete , it sufﬁces to show that they cansimulate RNNs .
We say that a Transformer simulates an RNN ( as deﬁned in Sec . 3.1 ) if on every input s2 , at each step t , the vectoryt contains the hidden state htas a subvector , i.e. yt=
[ ht; ] , and halts at the same step as the RNN .
Theorem 4.1 .
The class of Transformers with positional encodings is Turing - complete .
Proof Sketch .
The inputs0;:::;sn2is provided to the transformer as the sequence of vectors x0;:::;xn , wherexi= [ 0dh;fb(si);0dh;i;1 ] , which has as sub - vector the given base embedding fb(si)and the positional encoding i , along with extra coordinates set to constant values and will be used later .
The basic observation behind our construction of the simulating Transformer is that the transformer decoder can naturally implement the recurrence operations of the type used by RNNs .
To this end , the FFNOdec()of the decoder , which plays the same role as the FFN component of the RNN , needs sequential access to the input in the same way as RNN .
But the Transformer receives the whole input at the same time .
We utilize positional encoding along with the attention mechanism to isolate xt
at timetand feed it to Odec( ) , thereby simulating the RNN .
As stated earlier , we append the input s1;:::;sn of the RNN with $ ’s until it halts .
Since the Transformer takes its input all at once , appending by $ ’s is not possible ( in particular , we do not know how long the computation would take ) .
Instead , we append the input with a single $ .
After encountering a$once , the Transformer will feed ( encoding of ) $ toOdec()in subsequent steps until termination .
Here we conﬁne our discussion to the case tn ; thet > n case is slightly different but simpler .
The construction is straightforward : it has only one head , one encoder layer and one decoder layer ; moreover , the attention mechanisms in the encoder and the decoder - decoder attention block of the decoder are trivial as described below .
The encoder attention layer does trivial computation in that it merely computes the identity function :
zi = xi , which can be easily achieved , e.g. by using the residual connection and setting the value vectors to 0 .
The ﬁ-
459 Encoder - Encoder   Attention HeadFeed Forward   Network Input EmbeddingDecoder - Decoder Attention HeadDecoder - Encoder Attention HeadFeed Forward   Network Output EmbeddingPositional   EncodingPositional   EncodingFigure 2 : Transformer network with various components highlighted .
The components marked red are essential for the Turing - completeness whereas for the pairs of blocks and residual connections marked green , either one of the component is enough .
The dashed residual connection is not necessary for Turingcompleteness of the network .
nalK(1)()andV(1)()functions bring ( Ke;Ve ) into useful forms by appropriate linear transformations : ki=
[ 0db;0db;0db; 1;i]andvi= [ 0db;fb(si);0db;0;0 ] .
Thus , the key vectors only encode the positional information and the value vectors only encode the input symbols .
The output sequence of the decoder is y1;y2 ; : : : .
Our construction will ensure , by induction on t , thatytcontains the hidden states htof the RNN as a sub - vector along with positional information :
yt=
[ ht;0db;0db;t+1;1 ] .
This is easy to arrange fort= 0 , and assuming it for twe prove it for t+1 .
As for the encoder , the decoder - decoder attention block acts as the identity : pt = yt .
Now , using the last but one coordinate in ytrepresenting the time t+ 1 , the attention mechanism Att(pt;Ke;Ve ) can retrieve the embedding of the t - th input symbolxt .
This is possible because in the key vector kimentioned above , almost all coordinates other than the one representing the position iare set to 0 , allowing the mechanism to only focus on the positional information and not be distracted by the other contents of pt = yt : the scoring function has valuefatt(pt;ki )
=  jhpt;kiij= ji (t+ 1)j .
For a given t , it is maximized at i = t+ 1 fort < n and ati = nfortn .
This use of scoring function is similar to P ´ erez et al .
( 2019 ) .
At this point , Odec()has at its disposal the hidden stateht(coming from ytviaptand the residual connection ) and the input symbol xt(coming via the attention mechanism and the residual connection ) .
Hence O()can act just like the FFN ( Lemma C.4 ) underlying the RNN to compute ht+1 and thusyt+1 , proving the induction hypothesis .
The complete construction can be found in Sec .
C.2 in the appendix .
Theorem 4.2 .
The class of Transformers with positional masking and no explicit positional encodings is Turing - complete .
Proof Sketch .
As before , by Theorem 3.1 it sufﬁces to show that Transformers can simulate RNNs .
The inputs0;:::;snis provided to the transformer as the sequence of vectors x0;:::;xn , where xi=
[ 0dh;0dh;fb(si);JsiK;0;0m;0m;0 m ] .
The general goal for the directional case is similar to the vanilla case , namely we would like the FFN Odec()of the decoder to directly simulate the computation in the underlying RNN .
In the vanilla case , positional encoding and the attention mechanism helped us feed input xtat thet - th iteration of the decoder toOdec( ) .
However , we no longer have explicit positional information in the input xtsuch as a coordinate with value t.
The key insight is that we do not need the positional information explicitly to recover xtat stept : in our construction , the attention mechanism with masking will recover xt in an indirect manner even though it ’s not able to “ zero in ” on the t - th position .
Let us ﬁrst explain this without details of the construction .
We maintain in vector !
t2Qm , with a coordinate each for symbols in  , the fraction of times the symbol has occurred up to step t.
Now , at a steptn , for the difference !
t !t 1(which is part of the query vector ) , it can be shown easily that only the coordinate corresponding to stis positive .
Thus after applying the linearized sigmoid (!t !t 1 ) , we can isolate the coordinate corresponding to st . Now using this query vector , the ( hard ) attention mechanism will be able to retrieve the value vectors for all indices jsuch thatsj = st and output their average .
Crucially , the value vector for an index jis essentiallyxjwhich depends only onsj .
Thus , all these vectors are equal to xt , and so is their average .
This recovers xt , which
460can now be fed to Odec( ) , simulating the RNN .
We now outline the construction and relate it to the above discussion .
As before , for simplicity we restrict to the case tn .
We use only one head , one layer encoder and two layer decoder .
The encoder , as in the vanilla case , does very little other than pass information along .
The vectors in ( Ke;Ve)are obtained by the trivial attention mechanism followed by simple linear transformations : ke i=
[ 0dh;0dh;0db;JsiK;0;0m;0m;0 m ] andve i=
[ 0dh;0dh;fb(si);0m;0;0m;JsiK;0 m ] .
Our construction ensures that at step twe have yt=
[ ht 1;0dh;0db;0m;1 2t;0m;0m;!t 1 ] .
As before , the proof is by induction on t. In the ﬁrst layer of decoder , the decoderdecoder attention block is trivial : p(1 ) t = yt .
In the decoder - encoder attention block , we give equal attention to all the t+ 1 values , which along with Oenc( ) , leads toz(1 ) t=
[ ht 1;0dh;0db;t;1 2t+1;0m;0m;!t ] , where essentiallyt=(!t !t 1 ) , except with a change for the last coordinate due to special status of the last symbol $ in the processing of RNN .
In the second layer , the decoder - decoder attention block is again trivial with p(2 ) t = z(1 )
t. We remark that in this construction , the scoring function is the standard multiplicative attention3 .
Now hp(2 ) t;ke ji = ht;JsjKi=t;j , which is positive if and only if sj = st , as mentioned earlier .
Thus attention weights in Att(p(2 ) t;Ke t;Ve t)satisfy hardmax ( hp(2 ) t;ke 1i;:::;hp(2 ) t;ke ti ) = 1 t(I(s0= st);I(s1 = st);:::;I(st = st ) ) , wheretis a normalization constant and I()is the indicator .
See Lemma D.3 for more details .
At this point , Odec()has at its disposal the hidden stateht(coming from z(1 ) tviap(2 ) tand the residual connection ) and the input symbol xt(coming via the attention mechanism and the residual connection ) .
Hence Odec()can act just like the FFN underlying the RNN to compute ht+1and
thusyt+1 , proving the induction hypothesis .
The complete construction can be found in Sec .
D in the Appendix .
In practice , Yang et al .
( 2019 ) found that for NMT , Transformers with only positional masking achieve comparable performance compared to the ones with positional encodings .
Similar evidence 3Note that it is closer to practice than the scoring function  jhq;kijused in P ´ erez
et al .
( 2019 ) and Theorem 4.1was found by Tsai et al .
( 2019 ) .
Our proof for directional transformers entails that there is no loss of order information if positional information is only provided in the form of masking .
However , we do not recommend using masking as a replacement for explicit encodings .
The computational equivalence of encoding and masking given by our results implies that any differences in their performance must come from differences in learning dynamics .
4.2 Analysis of Components The results for various components follow from our construction in Theorem 4.1 .
Note that in both the encoder and decoder attention blocks , we need to compute the identity function .
We can nullify the role of the attention heads by setting the value vectors to zero and making use of only the residual connections to implement the identity function .
Thus , even if we remove those attention heads , the model is still Turing - complete .
On the other hand , we can remove the residual connections around the attention blocks and make use of the attention heads to implement the identity function by using positional encodings .
Hence , either the attention head or the residual connection is sufﬁcient to achieve Turing - completeness .
A similar argument can be made for the FFN in the encoder layer : either the residual connection or the FFN is sufﬁcient for Turing - completeness .
For the decoder - encoder attention head , since it is the only way for the decoder to obtain information about the input , it is necessary for the completeness .
The FFN is the only component that can perform computations based on the input and the computations performed earlier via recurrence and hence , the model is not Turing - complete without it .
Figure 2 summarizes the role of different components with respect to the computational expressiveness of the network .
Proposition 4.3 .
The class of Transformers without residual connection around the decoderencoder attention block is not Turing - complete .
Proof Sketch .
We conﬁne our discussion to singlelayer decoder ; the case of multilayer decoder is similar .
Without the residual connection , the decoder - encoder attention block produces at= Att(pt;Ke;Ve )
= Pn i=1 
i ve ifor some  i ’s such
thatPn i  i= 1 .
Note that , without residual connectionatcan take on at most 2n 1values .
This is because by the deﬁnition of hard attention the vector (  1 ; : : : ;  n)is characterized by the set of zero coordinates and there are at most 2n 1
461such sets ( all coordinates can not be zero ) .
This restriction on the number of values on atholds regardless of the value of pt .
If the task requires the network to produce values of atthat come from a set with size at least 2n , then the network will not be able to perform the task .
Here ’s an example task : given a number 2(0;1 ) , the network must produce numbers 0;;2;:::;k
 , wherek is the maximum integer such that k1 .
If the network receives a single input  , then it is easy to see that the vector atwill be a constant ( ve 1 ) at any step and hence the output of the network will also be constant at all steps .
Thus , the model can not perform such a task .
If the input is combined with n 1auxiliary symbols ( such as # and$ ) , then in the network , each attakes on at most 2n 1values .
Hence , the model will be incapable of performing the task if <1=2n .
Such a limitation does not exist with a residual connection since the vector at = Pn i=1  i ve i+ptcan take arbitrary number of values depending on its prior computations in pt .
For further details , see Sec . C.1 in the Appendix .
Discussion .
It is perhaps surprising that residual connection , originally proposed to assist in the learning ability of very deep networks , plays a vital role in the computational expressiveness of the network .
Without it , the model is limited in its capability to make decisions based on predictions in the previous steps .
We explore practical implications of this result in section 5 . 5 Experiments In this section , we explore the practical implications of our results .
Our experiments are geared towards answering the following questions : Q1.Are there any practical implications of the limitation of Transformers without decoder - encoder residual connections ?
What tasks can they do or not do compared to vanilla Transformers ?
Q2 .
Is there any additional beneﬁt of using positional masking as opposed to absolute positional encoding ( Vaswani et al . , 2017 ) ?
Although we showed that Transformers without decoder - encoder residual connection are not Turing complete , it does not imply that they are incapable of performing all the tasks .
Our results suggest that they are limited in their capability to make inferences based on their previous computations , which is required for tasks such as counting and language modeling .
However , it can be shown that the modelis capable of performing tasks which rely only on information provided at a given step such as copying and mapping .
For such tasks , given positional information at a particular step , the model can look up the corresponding input and map it via the FFN .
We evaluate these hypotheses via our experiments .
Model Copy Task Counting Vanilla Transformers 100.0 100.0 - Dec - Enc Residual 99.7 0.0 - Dec - Dec Residual 99.7 99.8 Table 1 : BLEU scores ( " ) for copy and counting task .
Please see Section 5 for details For our experiments on synthetic data , we consider two tasks , namely the copy task and the counting task .
For the copy task , the goal of a model is to reproduce the input sequence .
We sample sentences of lengths between 5 - 12 words from Penn Treebank and create a train - test split of 40k-1k with all sentences belonging to the same range of length .
In the counting task , we create a very simple dataset where the model is given one number between 0 and 100 as input and its goal is to predict the next ﬁve numbers .
Since only a single input is provided to the encoder , it is necessary for the decoder to be able to make inferences based on its previous predictions to perform this task .
The beneﬁt of conducting these experiments on synthetic data is that they isolate the phenomena we wish to evaluate .
For both these tasks , we compare vanilla Transformer with the one without decoder - encoder residual connection .
As a baseline we also consider the model without decoder - decoder residual connection , since according to our results , that connection does not inﬂuence the computational power of the model .
We implement a single layer encoderdecoder network with only a single attention head in each block .
We then assess the inﬂuence of the limitation on Machine Translation which requires a model to do a combination of both mapping and inferring from computations in previous timesteps .
We evaluate the models on IWSLT’14 German - English dataset and IWSLT’15 English - Vietnamese dataset .
We again compare vanilla Transformer with the ones without decoder - encoder and decoder - decoder residual connection .
While tuning the models , we vary the number of layers from 1 to 4 , the learning rate , warmup steps and the number of heads .
Speciﬁcations of the models , experimental setup , datasets and sample outputs can be found in Sec .
E
462Model De - En En - Vi Vanilla Transformers 32.9 28.8 - Dec - Enc Residual 24.1 21.8 - Dec - Dec Residual 30.6 27.2 Table 2 : BLEU scores ( " ) for translation task .
Please see Section 5 for details .
in the Appendix .
Results on the effect of residual connections on synthetic tasks can be found in Table 1 .
As per our hypothesis , all the variants are able to perfectly perform the copy task .
For the counting task , the one without decoder - encoder residual connection is incapable of performing it .
However , the other two including the one without decoder - decoder residual connection are able to accomplish the task by learning to make decisions based on their prior predictions .
Table 3 provides some illustrative sample outputs of the models .
For the MT task , results can be found in Table 2 .
While the drop from removing decoder - encoder residual connection is signiﬁcant , it is still able to perform reasonably well since the task can be largely fulﬁlled by mapping different words from one sentence to another .
For positional masking , our proof technique suggests that due to lack of positional encodings , the model must come up with its own mechanism to make order related decisions .
Our hypothesis is that , if it is able to develop such a mechanism , it should be able to generalize to higher lengths and not overﬁt on the data it is provided .
To evaluate this claim , we simply extend the copy task upto higher lengths .
The training set remains the same as before , containing sentences of length 5 - 12 words .
We create 5 different validation sets each containing 1k sentences each .
The ﬁrst set contains sentences within the same length as seen in training ( 5 - 12 words ) , the second set contains sentences of length 13 - 15 words while the third , fourth and ﬁfth sets contain sentences of lengths 15 - 20 , 21 - 25 and 26 - 30 words respectively .
We consider two models , one which is provided absolute positional encodings and one where only positional masking is applied .
Figure 3 shows the performance of these models across various lengths .
The model with positional masking clearly generalizes up to higher lengths although its performance too degrades at extreme lengths .
We found that the model with absolute positional encodings during training overﬁts on the fact that the 13th token is always the terminal symbol .
Hence , when evaluFigure 3 : Performance of the two models on the copy task across varying lengths of test inputs .
DiSAN refers to Transformer with only positional masking .
SAN refers to vanilla Transformers .
ated on higher lengths it never produces a sentence of length greater than 12 .
Other encoding schemes such as relative positional encodings ( Shaw et al . , 2018 ; Dai et al . , 2019 ) can generalize better , since they are inherently designed to address this particular issue .
However , our goal is not to propose masking as a replacement of positional encodings , rather it is to determine whether the mechanism that the model develops during training is helpful in generalizing to higher lengths .
Note that , positional masking was not devised by keeping generalization or any other beneﬁt in mind .
Our claim is only that , the use of masking does not limit the model ’s expressiveness and it may beneﬁt in other ways , but during practice one should explore each of the mechanisms and even a combination of both .
Yang et al .
( 2019 ) showed that a combination of both masking and encodings is better able to learn order information as compared to explicit encodings .
SOURCE – 42 REFERENCE – 43 44 45 46 47 VANILLA TRANSFORMER – 43 44 45 46 47 - DEC - ENCRESIDUAL – 27 27 27 27 27 - DEC - DECRESIDUAL – 43 44 45 46 47 Table 3 : Sample outputs by the models on the counting task .
Without the residual connection around DecoderEncoder block , the model is incapable of predicting more than one distinct output .
6 Discussion and Final Remarks We showed that the class of languages recognized by Transformers and RNNs are exactly the same .
This implies that the difference in performance of both the networks across different tasks can be attributed only to their learning abilities .
In contrast to RNNs , Transformers are composed of multiple components which are not essential for their com-
463putational expressiveness .
However , in practice they may play a crucial role .
Recently , V oita et al .
( 2019 ) showed that the decoder - decoder attention heads in the lower layers of the decoder do play a signiﬁcant role in the NMT task and suggest that they may be helping in language modeling .
This indicates that components which are not essential for the computational power may play a vital role in improving the learning and generalization ability .
Take - Home Messages .
We showed that the order information can be provided either in the form of explicit encodings or masking without affecting computational power of Transformers .
The decoder - encoder attention block plays a necessary role in conditioning the computation on the input sequence while the residual connection around it is necessary to keep track of previous computations .
The feedforward network in the decoder is the only component capable of performing computations based on the input and prior computations .
Our experimental results show that removing components essential for computational power inhibit the model ’s ability to perform certain tasks .
At the same time , the components which do not play a role in the computational power may be vital to the learning ability of the network .
Although our proofs rely on arbitrary precision , which is common practice while studying the computational power of neural networks in theory ( Siegelmann and Sontag , 1992 ; P ´ erez et al . , 2019 ; Hahn , 2020 ; Yun et al . , 2020 ) , implementations in practice work over ﬁxed precision settings .
However , our construction provides a starting point to analyze Transformers under ﬁnite precision .
Since RNNs can recognize all regular languages in ﬁnite precision ( Korsky and Berwick , 2019 ) , it follows from our construction that Transformer can also recognize a large class of regular languages in ﬁnite precision .
At the same time , it does not imply that it can recognize all regular languages given the limitation due to the precision required to encode positional information .
We leave the study of Transformers in ﬁnite precision for future work .
Acknowledgements We thank the anonymous reviewers for their constructive comments and suggestions .
We would also like to thank our colleagues at Microsoft Research and Michael Hahn for their valuable feedback and helpful discussions .
References Yining Chen , Sorcha Gilroy , Andreas Maletti , Jonathan May , and Kevin Knight .
2018 .
Recurrent neural networks as weighted language recognizers .
In Proceedings of the 2018 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics : Human Language Technologies , Volume 1 ( Long Papers ) , pages 2261–2271 , New Orleans , Louisiana . Association for Computational Linguistics .
Zihang Dai , Zhilin Yang , Yiming Yang , Jaime Carbonell , Quoc Le , and Ruslan Salakhutdinov .
2019 .
Transformer - XL : Attentive language models beyond a ﬁxed - length context .
In Proceedings of the 57th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics , pages 2978–2988 , Florence , Italy . Association for Computational Linguistics .
Jacob Devlin , Ming - Wei Chang , Kenton Lee , and Kristina Toutanova . 2019 .
BERT : Pre - training of deep bidirectional transformers for language understanding .
In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics : Human Language Technologies , Volume 1 ( Long and Short Papers ) , pages 4171–4186 , Minneapolis , Minnesota .
Association for Computational Linguistics .
Michael Hahn .
2020 .
Theoretical limitations of selfattention in neural sequence models .
Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics , 8:156–171 .
Jiri Hron , Yasaman Bahri , Jascha Sohl - Dickstein , and Roman Novak .
2020 .
Inﬁnite attention : Nngp and ntk for deep attention networks .
arXiv preprint arXiv:2006.10540 .
Cheng - Zhi Anna Huang , Ashish Vaswani , Jakob Uszkoreit , Noam Shazeer , Curtis Hawthorne , Andrew M. Dai , Matthew D. Hoffman , and Douglas Eck . 2018 .
An improved relative self - attention mechanism for transformer with application to music generation .
ArXiv , abs/1809.04281 .
Hyunjik Kim , George Papamakarios , and Andriy Mnih . 2020 .
The lipschitz constant of self - attention .
arXiv preprint arXiv:2006.04710 .
Guillaume Klein , Yoon Kim , Yuntian Deng , Jean Senellart , and Alexander Rush . 2017 .
OpenNMT : Opensource toolkit for neural machine translation .
In Proceedings of ACL 2017 , System Demonstrations , pages 67–72 , Vancouver , Canada .
Association for Computational Linguistics .
John F Kolen and Stefan C Kremer .
2001 .
A ﬁeld guide to dynamical recurrent networks .
John Wiley & Sons .
Samuel A Korsky and Robert C Berwick .
2019 .
On the computational power of rnns .
arXiv preprint arXiv:1906.06349 .
464Yoav Levine , Noam Wies , Or Sharir , Hoﬁt Bata , and Amnon Shashua . 2020 .
Limits to depth efﬁciencies of self - attention .
arXiv preprint arXiv:2006.12467 .
Minh - Thang Luong and Christopher D Manning .
2015 .
Stanford neural machine translation systems for spoken language domains .
In Proceedings of the International Workshop on Spoken Language Translation , pages 76–79 .
Warren S McCulloch and Walter Pitts .
1943 .
A logical calculus of the ideas immanent in nervous activity .
The bulletin of mathematical biophysics , 5(4):115 – 133 .
William Merrill , Gail Weiss , Yoav Goldberg , Roy Schwartz , Noah A. Smith , and Eran Yahav .
2020 .
A formal hierarchy of RNN architectures .
In Proceedings of the 58th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics , pages 443–459 , Online .
Association for Computational Linguistics .
Myle Ott , Sergey Edunov , David Grangier , and Michael Auli .
2018 .
Scaling neural machine translation .
In Proceedings of the Third Conference on Machine Translation : Research Papers , pages 1–9 , Brussels , Belgium .
Association for Computational Linguistics .
Jorge P ´ erez , Javier Marinkovi ´ c , and Pablo Barcel ´ o. 2019 .
On the turing completeness of modern neural network architectures .
In International Conference on Learning Representations .
Alec Radford , Karthik Narasimhan , Tim Salimans , and Ilya Sutskever . 2018 .
Improving language understanding by generative pre - training .
URL https://s3 - us - west-2 .
amazonaws .
com / openaiassets / researchcovers / languageunsupervised / language understanding paper .
pdf .
Alexander Rush .
2018 .
The annotated transformer .
InProceedings of Workshop for NLP Open Source Software ( NLP - OSS ) , pages 52–60 , Melbourne , Australia . Association for Computational Linguistics .
Luzi Sennhauser and Robert Berwick .
2018 .
Evaluating the ability of LSTMs to learn context - free grammars .
In Proceedings of the 2018 EMNLP Workshop BlackboxNLP : Analyzing and Interpreting Neural Networks for NLP , pages 115–124 , Brussels , Belgium .
Association for Computational Linguistics .
Peter Shaw , Jakob Uszkoreit , and Ashish Vaswani . 2018 .
Self - attention with relative position representations .
In Proceedings of the 2018 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics : Human Language Technologies , Volume 2 ( Short Papers ) , pages 464–468 , New Orleans , Louisiana .
Association for Computational Linguistics .
Tao Shen , Tianyi Zhou , Guodong Long , Jing Jiang , Shirui Pan , and Chengqi Zhang .
2018 .
Disan : Directional self - attention network for rnn / cnn - free language understanding .
In Thirty - Second AAAI Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence
.Hava
T Siegelmann .
2012 .
Neural networks and analog computation : beyond the Turing limit .
Springer Science & Business Media .
Hava T Siegelmann and Eduardo D Sontag .
1992 .
On the computational power of neural nets .
In Proceedings of the ﬁfth annual workshop on Computational learning theory , pages 440–449 .
ACM .
Natalia Skachkova , Thomas Trost , and Dietrich Klakow .
2018 .
Closing brackets with recurrent neural networks .
In Proceedings of the 2018 EMNLP Workshop BlackboxNLP : Analyzing and Interpreting Neural Networks for NLP , pages 232–239 , Brussels , Belgium .
Association for Computational Linguistics .
Yao - Hung Hubert Tsai , Shaojie Bai , Makoto Yamada , Louis - Philippe Morency , and Ruslan Salakhutdinov .
2019 .
Transformer dissection : An uniﬁed understanding for transformer ’s attention via the lens of kernel .
In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing and the 9th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing ( EMNLP - IJCNLP ) , pages 4344–4353 , Hong Kong , China .
Association for Computational Linguistics .
Ashish Vaswani , Noam Shazeer , Niki Parmar , Jakob Uszkoreit , Llion Jones , Aidan N Gomez , Łukasz Kaiser , and Illia Polosukhin . 2017 .
Attention is all you need .
In Advances in neural information processing systems , pages 5998–6008 .
Elena V oita , David Talbot , Fedor Moiseev , Rico Sennrich , and Ivan Titov .
2019 .
Analyzing multi - head self - attention : Specialized heads do the heavy lifting , the rest can be pruned .
In Proceedings of the 57th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics , pages 5797–5808 , Florence , Italy . Association for Computational Linguistics .
Gail Weiss , Yoav Goldberg , and Eran Yahav .
2018 .
On the practical computational power of ﬁnite precision RNNs for language recognition .
In Proceedings of the 56th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics ( Volume 2 : Short Papers ) , pages 740–745 , Melbourne , Australia . Association for Computational Linguistics .
Baosong Yang , Longyue Wang , Derek F. Wong , Lidia S. Chao , and Zhaopeng Tu .
2019 .
Assessing the ability of self - attention networks to learn word order .
In Proceedings of the 57th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics , pages 3635–3644 , Florence , Italy . Association for Computational Linguistics .
Chulhee Yun , Srinadh Bhojanapalli , Ankit Singh Rawat , Sashank Reddi , and Sanjiv Kumar .
2020 .
Are transformers universal approximators of sequence - to - sequence functions ?
In International Conference on Learning Representations .
465A Roadmap We begin with various deﬁnitions and results .
We deﬁne simulation of Turing machines by RNNs and state the Turing - completeness result for RNNs .
We deﬁne vanilla and directional Transformers and what it means for Transformers to simulate RNNs .
Many of the deﬁnitions from the main paper are reproduced here , but in more detail .
In Sec .
C.1 we discuss the effect of removing a residual connection on computational power of Transformers .
Sec .
C.2 contains the proof of Turing completeness of vanilla Transformers and Sec .
D the corresponding proof for directional Transformers .
Finally , Sec . 5 has further details of experiments .
B Deﬁnitions
Denote the setf1;2;:::;ngby[n ] .
Functions deﬁned for scalars are extended to vectors in the natural way : for a function Fdeﬁned on a set A , for a sequence ( a1;:::;an)of elements in A , we setF(a1;:::;an):= ( F(a1);:::;F ( an ) ) .
IndicatorI(P)is1 , if predicate Pis true and is 0 otherwise .
For a sequence X= ( xn0;:::;xn ) for somen00 , we setXj:= ( xn0;:::;xj)for j2fn0;i+1;:::;ng .
We will work with an alphabet = f  1 ; : : : ;  mg , with  1= # and  m= $ .
The special symbols # and$correspond to the beginning and end of the input sequence , resp .
For a vectorv , by0vwe mean the all- 0vector of the same dimension as v. Let t:= minft;ng B.1 RNNs and Turing - completeness Here we summarize , somewhat informally , the Turing - completeness result for RNNs due to ( Siegelmann and Sontag , 1992 ) .
We recall basic notions from computability theory .
In the main paper , for simplicity we stated the results for total recursive functions  : f0;1g!f0;1g , i.e. a function that is deﬁned on every s2 f0;1g and whose values can be computed by a Turing machine .
While total recursive functions form a satisfactory formalization of seq - to - seq tasks , here we state the more general result for partial recursive functions .
Let  : f0;1g!f0;1gbe partial recursive .
A partial recursive function is one that need not be deﬁned for every s2 f0;1g , and there exists a Turing Machine Mwith the following property .
The input sis initially written on the tape of the Turing Machine Mand the output  ( s ) is the content of the tape upon acceptance whichis indicated by halting in a designated accept state .
Onsfor which  is undeﬁned , Mdoes not halt .
We now specify how Turing machine Mis simulated by RNN R(M ) .
In the RNNs in ( Siegelmann and Sontag , 1992 ) the hidden state hthas the form ht=
[ qt ; 	 1 ; 	 2 ] ; whereqt= [ q1;:::;qs]denotes the state of M one - hot form .
Numbers 	 1 ; 	 22Q , called stacks , store the contents of the tape in a certain Cantor set like encoding ( which is similar to , but slightly more involved , than binary representation ) at each step .
The simulating RNN R(M ) , gets as input encodings of s1s2:::snin the ﬁrstnsteps , and from then on receives the vector 0as input in each step .
If  is deﬁned on s , thenMhalts and accepts with the output  ( s)the content of the tape .
In this case , R(M)enters a special accept state , and 	 1 encodes  ( s)and 	 2= 0 .
IfMdoes not halt then R(M)also does not enter the accept state .
Siegelmann and Sontag ( 1992 ) further show that fromR(M)one can further explicitly produce the  ( s)as its output .
In the present paper , we will not deal with explicit production of the output but rather work with the deﬁnition of simulation in the previous paragraph .
This is for simplicity of exposition , and the main ideas are already contained in our results .
If the Turing machine computes  ( s ) in timeT(s ) , the simulation takes O(jsj)time to encode the input sequence sand4T(s)to compute  ( s ) .
Theorem B.1 ( ( Siegelmann and Sontag , 1992 ) ) .
Given any partial recursive function  : f0;1g ! f0;1gcomputed by Turing machine M  , there exists a simulating RNN R(M  ) .
In view of the above theorem , for establishing Turing - completeness of Transformers , it sufﬁces to show that RNNs can be simulated by Transformers .
Thus , in the sequel we will only talk about simulating RNNs .
B.2 Vanilla Transformer Architecture
Here we describe the original transformer architecture due to ( Vaswani et al . , 2017 ) as formalized by ( P ´ erez et al . , 2019 ) .
While our notation and deﬁnitions largely follow ( P ´ erez et al . , 2019 ) , they are not identical .
The transformer here makes use of positional encoding ; later we will discuss the transformer variant using directional attention but without using positional encoding .
466The transformer , denoted Trans , is a sequenceto - sequence architecture .
Its input consists of ( i ) a sequence X= ( x1;:::;xn)of vectors in Qd , ( ii ) a seed vector y02Qd .
The output is a sequenceY= ( y1;:::;yr)of vectors in Qd .
The sequence Xis obtained from the sequence ( s0;:::;sn)2n+1of symbols by using the embedding mentioned earlier : xi = f(fb(si);pos(i ) ) for0in .
The transformer consists of composition of transformer encoder and a transformer decoder .
The transformer encoder is obtained by composing one or more single - layer encoders and similarly the transformer decoder is obtained by composing one or more single - layer decoders .
For the feed - forward networks in the transformer layers we use the activation as in ( Siegelmann and Sontag , 1992 ) , namely the saturated linear activation function : (x )
= 8 > < > :0 ifx<0 ; x if0x1 ; 1 ifx>1:(4 ) As mentioned in the main paper , we can easily work with the standard ReLU activation via (x )
= ReLU ( x) ReLU ( x 1 ) .
In the following , after deﬁning these components , we will put them together to specify the full transformer architecture .
But we begin with self - attention mechanism which is the central feature of the transformer .
Self - attention .
The self - attention mechanism takes as input ( i ) a query vectorq , ( ii ) a sequence ofkeyvectorsK= ( k1;:::;kn ) , and ( iii ) a sequence of value vectorsV= ( v1;:::;vn ) .
All vectors are in Qd .
Theq - attention over keys Kand valuesV , denoted by Att(q;K;V ) , is a vectoragiven by (  1 ; : : : ;  n ) = (fatt(q;k1);:::;fatt(q;kn ) ) ; a=  1v1 +  2v2++  nvn : The above deﬁnition uses two functions and
fattwhich we now describe .
For the normalization function :Qn!Qn 0we will use hardmax : forx= ( x1;:::;xn)2Qn , if the maximum value occurs rtimes among x1;:::;xn , then hardmax ( x)i:= 1 = rifxiis a maximum value andhardmax ( x)i:= 0otherwise .
In practice , the softmax is often used but its output values are in general not rational .
The names soft - attention andhard - attention are used for the attention mechanism depending on which normalization function is used .
For the Turing - completeness proof of vanilla transformers , the scoring function fattused is a combination of multiplicative attention ( Vaswani et
al . , 2017 ) and a non - linear function : fatt(q;ki )
=    hq;kii  .
For directional transformers , the standard multiplicative attention is used , that is , fatt(q;ki ) = hq;kii .
Transformer encoder .
Asingle - layer encoder is a function Enc(X; ) , whereis the parameter vector and the input X= ( x1;:::;xn)is a sequence of vector in Qd .
The output is another sequenceZ= ( z1;:::;zn)of vectors in Qd .
The parametersspecify functions Q();K();V( ) , andO( ) , all of type Qd!Qd .
The functions Q();K();andV()are usually linear transformations and this will be the case in our constructions : Q(xi )
= xT iWQ ; K(xi )
= xT iWK ; V(xi )
= xT iWV ; whereWQ;WK;WV2Qdd .
The function O( ) is a feed - forward network .
The single - layer encoder is then deﬁned by ai= Att(Q(xi);K(X);V(X ) )
+ xi;(5 ) zi = O(ai )
+ ai : The addition operations + xiand+aiare the residual connections .
The operation in ( 5 ) is called the encoder - encoder attention block .
The complete L - layer transformer encoder TEnc(L)(X;)has the same input X = ( x1;:::;xn)as the single - layer encoder .
By contrast , its output consists of two sequences ( Ke;Ve ) , each a sequence of nvectors in Qd .
The encoder TEnc(L)()is obtained by repeated application of single - layer encoders , each with its own parameters ; and at the end , two trasformation functionsKL()andVL()are applied to the sequence of output vectors at the last layer .
Functions K(L)()andV(L)()are linear transformations in our constructions .
Formally , for 1`L 1 andX1:=X , we have X`+1= Enc(X`; ` ) ;
Ke = K(L)(XL ) ; Ve = V(L)(XL ):
467The output of the L - layer Transformer encoder ( Ke;Ve ) = TEnc(L)(X)is fed to the Transformer decoder which we describe next .
Transformer decoder .
The input to a singlelayer decoder is ( i ) ( Ke;Ve ) , the sequences of key and value vectors output by the encoder , and ( ii ) a sequence Y= ( y1;:::;yk)of vectors in Qd .
The output is another sequence Z= ( z1;:::;zk ) of vectors in Qd .
Similar to the single - layer encoder , a singlelayer decoder is parameterized by functions Q();K();V()andO()and is deﬁned by pt= Att(Q(yt);K(Yt);V(Yt ) )
+ yt;(6 ) at= Att(pt;Ke;Ve )
+ pt ; ( 7 ) zt = O(at )
+ at : The operation in ( 6 ) will be referred to as the decoder - decoder attention block and the operation in ( 7 ) as the decoder - encoder attention block .
In the decoder - decoder attention block , positional masking is applied to prevent the network from attending over symbols which are ahead of them .
AnL - layer Transformer decoder is obtained by repeated application of Lsingle - layer decoders each with its own parameters and a transformation functionF : Qd!Qdapplied to the last vector in the sequence of vectors output by the ﬁnal decoder .
Formally , for 1`L 1andY1 = Ywe have Y`+1= Dec((Ke;Ve);Y`; ` ) ; z = F(yL t ):
We usez= TDecL((Ke;Ve);Y;)to denote anL - layer Transformer decoder .
Note that while the output of a single - layer decoder is a sequence of vectors , the output of an L - layer Transformer decoder is a single vector .
The complete Transformer .
ATransformer network receives an input sequence X , a seed vector y0 , andr2N. Fort0its output is a sequence Y= ( y1;:::;yr)deﬁned by ~yt+1= TDec  TEnc(X);(y0;y1;:::;yt) : We getyt+1by adding positional encoding : yt+1=~yt+1 + pos(t+ 1 ) .
We denote the complete Transformer by Trans(X;y0 )
= Y. The Transformer “ halts ” when yT2H , whereHis a prespeciﬁed halting set .
Simulation of RNNs by Transformers .
We say that a Transformer simulates an RNN ( as deﬁned in Sec . B.1 ) if on input s2 , at each step t , the vectorytcontains the hidden state htas a subvector : yt=
[ ht; ] , and halts at the same step as RNN .
C Results on Vanilla Transformers C.1 Residual Connections Proposition C.1 .
The Transformer without residual connection around the Decoder - Encoder Attention block in the Decoder is not Turing Complete Proof .
Recall that the vectors atis produced from the Encoder - Decoder Attention block in the following way , at= Att(pt;Ke;Ve )
+ pt
The result follows from the observation that without the residual connections , at= Att(pt;Ke;Ve ) , which leads to at = Pn i=1  i ve i for some  is such
thatPn i  i= 1 .
Sinceve iis produced from the encoder , the vector atwill have no information about its previous hidden state values .
Since the previous hidden state information was computed and stored in pt , without the residual connection , the information in atdepends solely on the output of the encoder .
One could argue that since the attention weights  is depend on the query vector pt , it could still use it gain the necessary information from the vectors ve is .
However , note that by deﬁnition of hard attention , the attention weights  iinat
= Pn i=1 
i ve i can either be zero or some nonzero value depending on the attention logits .
Since the attention weights  iare such thatPn i  i= 1 and all the nonzero weights are equal to each other .
Thus given the constraints there are 2n 1ways to attend over ninputs excluding the case where no input is attended over .
Hence , the network without decoder - encoder residual connection with ninputs can have at most 2n 1 distinctatvalues .
This implies that the model will be unable to perform a task that takes ninputs and has to produce more than 2n 1outputs .
Note that , such a limitation will not exist with a residual connection since the vector at= n i=1  i ve i+pt can take arbitrary number of values depending on its prior computations in pt .
As an example to illustrate the limitation , consider the following simple problem , given a value  , where 01 , the network must produce
468the values 0;;2;:::;k
 , wherekis the maximum integer such that k1 .
If the network receives a single input  , the encoder will produce only one particular output vector and regardless of what the value of the query vector ptis , the vector atwill be constant at every timestep .
Since atis fed to feedforward network which maps it to zt , the output of the decoder will remain the same at every timestep and it can not produce distinct values .
If the input is combined with n 1auxiliary symbols ( such as # and$ ) , then the network can only produce 2n 1outputs .
Hence , the model will be incapable of performing the task if <1=2n .
Thus the model can not perform the task deﬁned above which RNNs and Vanilla Transformers can easily do with a simple counting mechanism via their recurrent connection .
For the case of multilayer decoder , consider anyLlayer decoder model .
If the residual connection is removed , the output of decoder - encoder attention block at each layer is a ( ` ) t = Pn i=1  ( ` ) i ve i for1`L. Observe , that since output of the decoder - encoder attention block in the last ( L - th ) layer of the decoder is a(L ) t = Pn i=1  ( L ) i ve i. Since the output of the Llayer decoder will be a feedforward network over a(L ) t , the computation reduces to the single layer decoder case .
Hence , similar to the single layer case , if the task requires the network to produce values of atthat come from a set with size at least 2n , then the network will not be able to perform the task .
This implies that the model without decoderencoder residual connection is limited in its capability to perform tasks which requires it to make inferences based on previously generated outputs .
C.2 Simulation of RNNs by Transformers with positional encoding Theorem C.2 .
RNNs can be simulated by vanilla Transformers and hence the class of vanilla Transformers is Turing - complete .
Proof .
The construction of the simulating transformer is simple : it uses a single head and both the encoder and decoder have one layer .
Moreover , the encoder does very little and most of the action happens in the decoder .
The main task for the simulation is to design the input embedding ( building on the given base embedding fb ) , the feedforward networkO()and
the matrices corresponding to functionsQ();K();V().Input embedding .
The input embedding is obtained by summing the symbol and positional encodings which we next describe .
These encodings have dimension d= 2dh+db+ 2 , wheredhis the dimension of the hidden state of the RNN and db is the dimension of the given encoding fbof the input symbols .
We will use the symbol encoding fsymb:!Qdwhich is essentially the same as fbexcept that the dimension is now larger : fsymb(s ) =
[ 0dh;fe(s);0dh;0;0 ] : The positional encoding pos : N!Qdis simply pos(i ) =
[ 0dh;0db;0dh;i;1 ] : Together , these deﬁne the combined embedding f for a given input sequence s0s1sn2by f(si )
= fsymb(si)+pos(i )
=
[ 0dh;fb(si);0dh;i;1 ] : The vectorsv2Qdused in the computation of our transformer are of the form v=
[ h1;s;h2;x1;x2 ] ; whereh1;h22Qdh;s2Qde;andx1;x22Q. The coordinates corresponding to the hi ’s are reserved for computation related to hidden states of theRNN , the coordinates corresponding to sare reserved for base embeddings , and those for x1 andx2are reserved for scalar values related to positional operations .
The ﬁrst two blocks , corresponding toh1andsare reserved for computation of the RNN .
During the computation of the Transformer , the underlying RNN will get the input stat steptfor t= 0;1 ; : : : , where recall that t= minft;ng : This sequence leads to the RNN getting the embedding of the input sequence s0;:::;snin the ﬁrstn+ 1 steps followed by the embedding of the symbol $ for the subsequent steps , which is in accordance with the requirements of ( Siegelmann and Sontag , 1992 ) .
Similar to ( P ´ erez et al . , 2019 ) we use the following scoring function in the attention mechanism in our construction , fatt(qi;kj )
=  jhqi;kjij ( 8) Construction of TEnc .As
previously mentioned , our transformer encoder has only one layer , and the computation in the encoder is very simple : the attention mechanism is not utilized , only the residual connections are .
This is done by setting
469the matrix for V()to the all - zeros matrix , and the feedforward networks to always output 0 .
The application of appropriately chosen linear transformations for the ﬁnal K()andV()give the following lemma about the output of the encoder .
Lemma C.3 .
There exists a single layer encoder denoted by TEnc that takes as input the sequence ( x1;:::;xn;$)and generates the tuple ( Ke;Ve ) whereKe= ( k1;:::;kn)andVe= ( v1;:::;vn ) such that , ki= [ 0h;0s;0h; 1;i ] ; vi= [ 0h;si;0h;0;0 ] : Construction of TDec .As
in the construction ofTEnc , our TDec has only one layer .
Also likeTEnc , the decoder - decoder attention block just computes the identity : we set V(1)( )
= 0 identically , and use the residual connection so that pt = yt .
Fort0 , at thet - th step we denote the input to the decoder as yt=~yt+ pos(t ) .
Leth0= 0hand ~ y0=0 .
We will show by induction that at thet - th timestep we have yt=
[ ht;0s;0h;t+ 1;1 ] : ( 9 ) By construction , this is true for t= 0 :
y0=
[ 0h;0s;0h;1;1 ] :
Assuming that it holds for t , we show it for t+ 1 .
By Lemma C.5 Att(pt;Ke;Ve )
=
[ 0h;vt+1;0h;0;0]:(10 ) Lemma C.5 basically shows how we retrieve the inputst+1at the relevant step for further computation in the decoder .
It follows that at= Att(pt;Ke;Ve )
+
pt
=
[ ht;st+1;0h;t+ 1;1 ] : In the ﬁnal block of the decoder , the computation for RNN takes place : Lemma C.4 .
There exists a function O()deﬁned by feed - forward network such that , O(at )
=
[ ( ht+1 ht); st+1;0h; (t+ 1); 1 ] ; whereWh;Wxandbdenote the parameters of the RNN under consideration .
This leads to zt = O(at )
+ at=
[ ht+1;0s;0h;0;0 ] : We choose the function Ffor our decoder to be the identity function , therefore ~yt+1=
[ ht+1;0s;0h;0;0 ] , which means yt+1=~yt+1 + pos(i+ 1 ) =
[ ht+1;0s;0h;t+ 2;1 ] , proving our induction hypothesis .
C.3 Technical Lemmas Proof of Lemma C.3 .
We construct a single - layer encoder achieving the desired KeandVe .
We make use of the residual connections and via trivial selfattention we get that zi = xi .
More speciﬁcally fori2[n]we have V(1)(xi )
= 0 ; ai=0+xi ; O(ai ) = 0 ; zi=0+ai = xi : V(1)(xi )
= 0can be achieved by setting the weight matrix as the all- 0matrix .
Recall that xiis deﬁned as xi= [ 0h;si ; 0h;i;1 ] :
We then apply linear transformations in K(zi ) = ziWkandV(zi ) = ziWv , where WT k=2 66666640 0 0 0 ............ 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0   1 03 7777775 ; andWk2Qdd , and similarly one can obtain vi by setting the submatrix of Wv2Qddformed by the ﬁrstd 2rows and columns to the identity matrix , and the rest of the entries to zeros .
Lemma C.5 .
Letqt2Qdbe a query vector such thatq= [ ;:::;;t+ 1;1]wheret2Nand ‘  ’ denotes an arbitrary value .
Then we have Att(qt;Ke;Ve )
=
[ 0h;st+1;0h;0;0]:(11 )
470Proof .
Recall thatpt = yt=
[ ht;0 ; : : : ; 0;t+ 1;1]andki=
[ 0;0 ; : : : ; 0; 1;i]and hence hpt;kii = i (t+ 1 ) ; fatt(pt;ki )
=  ji (t+ 1)j :
Thus , fori2[n ] , the scoring function fatt(pt;ki ) has the maximum value 0at
indexi = t+ 1 if t < n ; fortn , the maximum value t+ 1 nis achieved for i = n. Therefore Att(pt;Ke;Ve )
= st+1 : Proof of Lemma C.4 .
Recall that at=
[ ht;st+1 ; 0h;t+ 1;1 ] NetworkO(at)is of the form O(at ) = W2(W1at+b1 ) ; where Wi2Qddandb2Qdand W1 = dhdedh2 dh de dh 22 6664WhWx00 0
I00
I 000 0 00I3 7775 andb1=
[ bh;0s;0h;0;0 ] .
Hence (W1at+b1 )
=
[ (Whht+Wxst+1+b ) ; st+1;ht;t+ 1;1 ]
Next we deﬁne W2by W2 = dhdedh2 dh de dh 22 6664I0 I0 0 I00
0000 000 I3 7775 :
This leads to O(at ) = W2(W1at+b1 ) =
[ (Whht+Wxst+1+b) ht; st+1 ; 0h; (t+ 1); 1 ] ; which is what we wanted to prove .
D Completeness of Directional Transformers There are a few changes in the architecture of the Transformer to obtain directional Transformer .
The ﬁrst change is that there are no positional encodings and
thus the input vector xionly consists of si .
Similarly , there are no positional encodings in the decoder inputs and hence yt=~yt .
The vector ~yis the output representation produced at the previous step and the ﬁrst input vector to the decoder ~y0=0 .
Instead of using positional encodings , we apply positional masking to the inputs and outputs of the encoder .
Thus the encoder - encoder attention in ( 5 ) is redeﬁned as a(`+1 ) i = Att(Q(z ( ` ) i);K(Z ( ` ) i);V(Z ( ` ) i))+z ( ` ) i ; whereZ(0)=X. Similarly the decoder - encoder attention in ( 7 ) is redeﬁned by a ( ` ) t= Att(p ( ` ) t;Ke t;Ve t ) + p ( ` ) t ; where`ina ( ` ) tdenotes the layer ` and we use v(`;b)to denote any intermediate vector being used in`-th layer and b - th block in cases where the same symbol is used in multiple blocks in the same layer .
Theorem D.1 .
RNNs can be simulated by vanilla Transformers and hence the class of vanilla Transformers is Turing - complete .
Proof .
The Transformer network in this case will be more complex than the construction for the vanilla case .
The encoder remains very similar , but the decoder is different and has two layers .
Embedding .
We will construct our Transformer to simulate an RNN of the form given in the deﬁnition with the recurrence ht = g(Whht 1+Wxxt+b ): The vectors used in the Transformer layers are of dimensiond= 2dh+de+ 4jj+ 1 .
Wheredhis the dimension of the hidden state of the RNN and deis the dimension of the input embedding .
All vectorv2Qdused during the computation of the network are of the form v=
[ h1;h2;s1;Js1K;x1;Js2KJs3K;Js4 K ] wherehi2Qdh;s2Qdeandxi2Q.
These blocks reserved for different types of objects .
The
471vectorshis are reserved for computation related to hidden states of RNN s , sis are reserved for input embeddings and xis are reserved for scalar values related to positional operations .
Given an input sequence s0s1s2sn2 wheres0= # andsn= $ , we use an embedding functionf:!Qddeﬁned as f(si )
= xi=
[ 0h;0h;si ; JsiK;0;0!;0!;0 ! ]
Unlike ( P ´ erez et al . , 2019 ) , we use the dot product as our scoring function as used in Vaswani et al .
( 2017 ) in the attention mechanism in our construction , fatt(qi;kj )
= hqi;kji : For the computation of the Transformer , we also use a vector sequence in Qjjdeﬁned by !
t=1 t+ 1tX j=0JstK ; where 0tn .
The vector ! t=
( ! t;1;:::;!t;jj)contains the proportion of each input symbol till step tfor0tn .
Set !  1=0 .
From the deﬁntion of ! t , it follows that at any step 1kjjwe have ! t;k=  t;k t+ 1 ; ( 12 ) where  t;kdenotes the number of times the k - th symbol  kinhas appeared till the t - th step .
Note that!t;0=1 t+1since the ﬁrst coordinate corresponds to the proportion of the start symbol # which appears only once at t= 0 .
Similarly , ! t;jj= 0
for0t <
n and!t;jj= 1=(t+ 1 ) fortn , since the end symbol $ does n’t appear till the end of the input and it appears only once at t
= n. We deﬁne two more sequences of vectors in Qjj for0tn : t=(!t !t 1 ) ; t= ( t;1;:::;t;jj 1;1=2t+1 ): Heretdenotes the difference in the proportion of symbols between the t - th and ( t 1)-th steps , with the applicatin of sigmoid activation .
In vector t , the last coordinate of thas been replaced with 1=2t+1 .
The last coordinate in ! tindicates the proportion of the terminal symbol $ and hence the last value in tdenotes the change in proportion of $ .We set the last coordinate in tto an exponentially decreasing sequence so that after nsteps we always have a nonzero score for the terminal symbol and it is taken as input in the underlying RNN .
Different and perhaps simpler choices for the last coordinate oftmay be possible .
Note that 0t;k1and 0t;k1for0tnand1kjj .
Construction of TEnc
.The
input to the network DTransMis the sequence ( s0;s1;:::;sn 1;sn ) wheres0= # andsn= $ .
Our encoder is a simple single layer network such that TEnc(x0;x1;:::;xn ) = ( Ke;Ve)whereKe= ( ke 0;:::;ke n)andVe= ( ve 0;:::;ve n)such that , ke i= [ 0h;0h;0s ; JsiK;0;0!;0!;0!];(13 ) ve i= [ 0h;0h;si ; 0!;0;0!;JsiK;0 ! ] : Similar to our construction of the encoder for vanilla transformer ( Lemma C.3 ) , the above Ke andVecan be obtained by making the output of Att( ) = 0 by choosing the V()to always evaluate to 0and similarly for O( ) , and using residual connections .
Then one can produce KeandVe via simple linear transformations using K()and V( ) .
Construction of TDec .At
thet - th step we denote the input to the decoder as yt=~yt , where 0tr , whereris the step where the decoder halts .
Leth 1=0handh0=0h .
We will prove by induction on tthat for 0trwe have yt=
[ ht 1;0h;0s ; 0!;1 2t;0!;0!;!t 1]:(14 )
This is true for t= 0by
the choice of seed vector : y0= [ 0h;0h;0s ; 0!;1;0!;0!;0 ! ] : Assuming the truth of ( 14 ) for t , we show it for t+ 1 . Layer 1 . Similar to the construction in Lemma C.3 , in the decoder - decoder attention block we set V(1)( )
= 0dand use the residual connections to set p(1 ) t = yt .
At thet - th step in the decoder - encoder attention block of layer 1 we have Att(p(1 ) t;Ket;Vet ) = tX j=0^  ( 1;2 ) t;jve j ;
472where ( ^  ( 2;2 ) t;1 ; : : : ; ^  ( 2;2 ) t;t )
= hardmax hp(1 ) t;ke 1i;:::;hp(1 ) t;keti = hardmax ( 0 ; : : : ; 0 )
= 1 t+ 1;:::;1 t+ 1 : Therefore Pt j=0^  ( 1;2 ) t;jve j= [ 0h;0h;s0 : t ; 0!;0;0!;!t;0 ! ] where s0 : t=1
t+
1tX j=0sj :
Thus , a(1 ) t= Att(p(1 ) t;Ket;Vet ) + p(1 ) t =
[ ht 1;0h;s0 : t;0!;1 2t;0!;!t;!t 1 ] : In Lemma D.2 we construct feed - forward network O(1)()such that O(1)(a(1 ) t ) =
[ 0h;0h; s0 : t;t; 1 2t+1 2t+1 ; 0!; !t; !t 1+!t ] : Hence z(1 ) t = O(1)(a(1 ) t ) + a(1 ) t ( 15 ) =
[ ht 1;0h;0s;t;1 2t+1;0!;0!;!t ] : Layer 2 .
In the ﬁrst block of layer 2 , we set the value transformation function to identically zero similar to Lemma C.3 , i.e. V(2)( ) = 0which leads to the output of Att()to be0and then using the residual connection we get p(2 ) t = z(1 ) t.
It follows by Lemma D.3 that Att(p(2 ) t;Ket;Vet ) =
[ 0h;0h;st;0!;0;0!;JstK;0 ! ] : Thus , a(2 ) t= Att(p(2 ) t;Ket;Vet ) + p(2 ) t
=
[ ht 1;0h;st;t;1 2t+1;0!;JstK;!t ] :
In the ﬁnal block of the decoder in the second layer , the computation for RNN takes place .
InLemma D.4 below we construct the feed - forward networkO(2)()such that O(2)(a(2 ) t ) =
[ (Whht 1+Wxst+b) ht 1 0h; st; t;0;0!; JstK;0 ! ]
and hence z(2 ) t = O(2)(a(2 ) t ) + a(2 ) t =[ (Whht 1+Wxst+b);0h;0s ; 0!;1 2t+1;0!;0!;!t ] ; which gives yt+1= [ ht;0h;0s ; 0!;1 2t+1;0!;0!;!t ] ; proving the induction hypothesis ( 14 ) for t+1 , and completing the simulation of RNN .
D.1 Technical Lemmas Lemma D.2 .
There exists a function O(1)(:)deﬁned by feed - forward network such that , O(1)(a(1 ) t ) =
[ 0h;0h; s0 : t;t ;  1 2t+1 2t+1;0!; !t; !t 1+!t ] Proof .
We deﬁne the feed - forward network O(1 ) (: ) such that O(1)(a(1 ) t ) =
[ 0h;0h; s0 : t;t !t ;  1 2t+1 2t+1;0!;0!; !t 1+!t ] where t= ( t;1;:::;t;n 1;1=2t+1);0t1 Recall that , a(1 ) t=
[ ht 1;0h;s0 : t ; ! t;1
2t;0!;0!;!t 1 ] We deﬁne the feed - forward network O(at)as follows , O(1)(at )
= W2(W1a(1 ) t+b1 )
473whereWi2Qddandb12Qd .
DeﬁneW1as 2dhded!1d!d!d !
2dh de d! 1 1 1 d !
d ! d!2 6666666666640000000 0I00000 00000I I 0001 2000 0001 2000 00I0000 00000I0 000000I3 777777777775 andb1=0 , then (W1a(1 ) t+b1 ) =
[ 0h;0h;s0 : t;t;1 2t+1 ; !
t;!t 1;!t 1 ]
We deﬁneW2as 2dhded! 12d!d!d !
2dh de d! 1 1 1 d !
d ! d!2
6666666666640000000 0 I00000 00I0000 0001;0000 000 2;1000 00I0000
00000 I0 00000I I3
777777777775
This leads to O(1)(a(1 ) t ) =
[ 0h;0h;s0 : t;t ;  1 2t+1 2t+1;0!; !t; !t 1+!t ] which is what we wanted to prove .
Lemma D.3 .
Letp(2 ) t2Qdbe a query vector such that p(2 ) t=
[ ;; ; t;;;; ] wheret0and ‘  ’ denotes an arbitrary value .
Then we have Att(p(2 ) t;Ket;Vet ) = [ 0h;0h;st ; 0!;0;0!;JstK;0 ! ] : ( 16 ) Proof .
Let ( ^  ( 2;2 ) t;1 ; : : : ; ^  ( 2;2 ) t;t )
= hardmax hp(2 ) t;ke 1i;:::;hp(2 )
t;ketibe
the vector of normalized attention scores in the decoder - encoder attention block of layer 2 at time t.
Then Att(p(2 ) t;Ket;Vet ) = tX j=0^  ( 2;2 ) t;jve j : We claim that Claim 1 .
Fort0we have ( ^  ( 2;2 ) t;1 ; : : : ; ^  ( 2;2 ) t;t )
= 1 t  I(s0 = st);I(s1 = st);:::;I(st = st) ; wheretis a normalization factor given by t = Pn 1 j=0I(sj = st ) .
We now prove the lemma assuming the claim above .
Denote the L.H.S. in ( 16 ) by  t. Note that ifsj = st , thenve j=  t. Now we have tX j=0^  ( 2;2 ) t;jve j=1 ttX j=0I(sj = st)ve j = 1 t0 @tX j=0I(sj = st)1 A  t =  t ; completing the proof of the lemma modulo the proof of the claim , which we prove next .
Proof .
( of Claim 1 ) For 0 < tn , the vector ! t !t 1has the form   1 t+ 1 1 t ; : : : ;   t;k t+ 1   t 1;k t ; : : : ; 0 ! :
Ifst=  k , then ( ! t !t 1)k ( 17 ) =   t;k t+ 1   t 1;k t ( 18 ) =   t 1;k+ 1 t+ 1   t 1;k t ( 19 ) = t   t 1;k t(t+ 1)(20 ) 1 t(t+ 1 ): ( 21 ) The last inequality used our assumption that s0= # and that # does not occur at any later time and
474therefore  t 1;j < t.
On the other hand , if st6=  k , then ( ! t !t 1)k=  t;k t+ 1   t 1;k t
=   t 1;k t+ 1   t 1;k
t
=    t 1;j t(t+ 1)(22 ) 0 : This leads to , ( ! t !t 1)k>0 ifst=  k ; ( !
t !t 1)k0 otherwise : In words , the change in the proportion of a symbol is positive from step t 1totif and only if it is the input symbol at the t - th step .
For 0tn and1kjj , this leads to t;k=(!t !t 1)k>0 ifst=  k ; t;k=(!t !t 1)k= 0 otherwise ; Fort > n , t=0 : Recall thatp(2 ) t = z(1 ) twhich comes from ( 15 ) , andke jis deﬁned in ( 13 ) .
We reproduce these for convenience : p(2 ) t=
[ ht 1;0h;0s ; t;1 2t+1;0!;0!;!t ] ; ke j= [ 0h;0h;0s ; JsjK;0;0!;0!;0 ! ] :
It now follows that for 0 < t < n , if0jtis such thatsj6 = st , then hp(2 ) t;ke ji = ht;JsjKi=t;i= 0 :
And for 0 < t < n , if0jtis such that sj = st=  i , then hp(2 ) t;ke ji = ht;JsjKi=t;i ( 23 ) = t   t 1;j t(t+
1)1 t(t+ 1 ): ( 24 ) Thus , for 0t < n , in the vector  hp(2 ) t;ke 0i;:::;hp(2 ) t;ke ti , the largest coordinates are the ones indexed by jwithsj = st and they all equalt   t 1;i t(t+1 ) .
All other coordinates are 0 .
Fortn , only the last coordinate hp(2 ) t;ke ni = ht;J$Ki=1 2t+1is non - zero .
Now the claim follows immediately by the deﬁnition of hardmax .Lemma
D.4 .
There exists a function O(2)(:)deﬁned by feed - forward network such that , for t0 , O(2)(a(2 ) t ) =
[ (Whht 1+Wxst+b) ht 1 ; 0h; st; t;0;0!; JstK;0 ! ]
whereWh;Wxandbdenote the parameters of the RNN under consideration .
Proof .
Proof is very similar to proof of lemma C.4 .
E Details of Experiments In this section , we describe the speciﬁcs of our experimental setup .
This includes details about the dataset , models , setup and some sample outputs .
E.1 Impact of Residual Connections The models under consideration are the vanilla Transformer , the one without decoder - encoder residual connection and the one without decoderdecoder residual connection .
For the synthetic tasks , we implement a single layer encoder - decoder network with only a single attention head in each block .
Our implementation of the Transformer is adapted from the implementation of ( Rush , 2018 ) .
Table 4 provides some illustrative sample outputs of the models for the copy task .
SOURCE & REFERENCE – there was no problem at all says douglas ford chief executive ofﬁcer of the futures exchange DIRECTIONAL TRANS FORMER – there was no problem at all says douglas ford chief executive ofﬁcer of the futures exchange VANILLA TRANS FORMER – there was no problem at all says douglas ford chief executive ofﬁcer Table 4 : Sample outputs by the models on the copy task on length 16 .
With absolute positional encodings the model overﬁts on terminal symbol at position 13 and generates sequence of length 12 .
For the machine translation task , we use OpenNMT ( Klein et al . , 2017 ) for our implementation .
For preprocessing the German - English dataset we used the script from fairseq .
The dataset contains about 153k training sentences , 7k development sentences and 7k test sentences .
The hyperparameters to train the vanilla Transformer were obtained from fairseq ’s guidelines .
We tuned the parameters on the validation set for the two baseline model .
To preprocess the English - Vietnamese dataset , we follow Luong and Manning ( 2015 ) .
The dataset contains about 133k training sentences .
We use
475the tst2012 dataset containing 1.5k sentences for validation and tst2013 containing 1.3k sentences as test set .
We use noam optimizer in all our experiments .
While tuning the network , we vary the number of layer from 1 to 4 , the learning rate , the number of heads , the warmup steps , embedding size and feedforward embedding size .
E.2 Masking and Encodings Our implementation for directional transformer is based on ( Yang et al . , 2019 ) but we use only unidirectional masking as opposed to bidirectional used in their setup .
While tuning the models , we vary the layers from 1 to 4 , the learning rate , warmup steps and the number of heads .
