Overview of Open - Source Morphology Development for the Komi - Zyrian Language :
Past and Future Jack Rueter University of Helsinki jack.rueter@helsinki.fiNiko Partanen University of Helsinki niko.partanen@helsinki.fi Mika Hämäläinen University of Helsinki & Rootroo Ltd mika.hamalainen@helsinki.fiTrond Trosterud Norwegian Arctic University trond.trosterud@uit.no
Abstract This study describes the on - going development of the finite - state description for an endangered minority language , KomiZyrian .
This work is located in the context where large written and spoken language corpora are available , which creates a set of unique challenges that have to be , and can be , addressed .
We describe how we have designed the transducer so that it can benefit from existing open - source infrastructures and therefore be as reusable as possible .
Дзеныдӧн Тайӧ гижӧдын сёрни мунӧ канму коми кыв технология йылысь , кӧні сетӧмаӧсь коми морфологиялы помысь - помӧдз автомат .
Уджыс сэтшӧм контекстын , кӧні ыджыд гижан да сёрнисикас корпусъяс
босьтанног .
Та вӧсна чужӧны торйӧн юалӧмъяс , кодлы выль воча кывъяс коланаӧсь .
Петкӧдлам , мый эм кыдзи аддзыны колана воча кывъяс .
Серпасалам анализаторавтоматлысь сӧвмӧдӧм процесс да вӧзйӧмным ӧтлаӧдны анализаторсӧ паськыдджык восся кодъяса ӧтувтечасӧинфраструктураӧ , медым уджыс уналаздоръясын вӧдитчыны .
1 Introduction This study discusses open - source morphology development , which has greatly benefited from opensource projects most notably achievements attributed to the GiellaLT infrastructure ( Moshagen et al . , 2014 ) , i.e. Giellatekno & Divvun at the Norwegian Arctic University in Tromsø , Norway .
Specifically we discuss the infrastructure for the Komi - Zyrian language .
We describe the work doneup until now , and delineate some of the tasks we deem necessary in the future .
There are features of Komi morphosyntax that need special attention , in regard to both of their linguistic and computational descriptions .
This contribution aims to bring that discussion forward , and delineate the current status of the work .
Rueter ( 2000 ) describes the initial creation of the transducer , and the work discussed here continues that same undertaking , essentially providing an update of the changes done in the last decade , and a plan for the future .
The transducer is available on GitHub for Komi - Zyrian .
¹The nightly builds are available through a Python library called UralicNLP ²(Hämäläinen , 2019 ) .
Easy and efficient access to the traducers and their lexical materials has been the main designing principle , and we consider current approach very successful .
Komi - Zyrian has a growing representation in online corpora .
There is a large written corpus that is accessible online ³ ; it has been created by FULab in Syktyvkar .
The Giellatekno infrastructure provides a Korp implementation ( Ahlberg et al . , 2013 ) hosting numerous Uralic Wikipedia corpora , among which Komi can also be found ⁴. At the Language Bank of Finland , parallel Bible corpora are available with possibilities for comparing different translations ( Rueter and Axelson , 2020 ) .
While literary language often reflects astute professional language users , social media provides written language that may be more closely related to the vernacular , this type of Komi is found with minority languages of the adjacent Volga - Kama region ⁵and as described in Arkhangelskiy ( 2019 ) .
In a simi¹https://github.com/giellalt/lang-kpv ²https://github.com/mikahama/uralicNLP ³http://komicorpora.ru ⁴http://gtweb.uit.no/u_korp/#?lang=en ⁵http://komi-zyrian.web-corpora.net/index _ en.html
lar vein , a Spoken Komi corpus containing mainly Izhma dialect has been created in a Kone Foundation funded research project ( Blokland et al . , 2014 – 2016 ) , and it is also available online for community and research access .
⁶Written and spoken language corpora are different in many ways , but together they form a large and representative description of the Komi language .
Thereby they both need to be accounted for when the transducer is further developed .
Electronic corpora have an important role in the research of Komi in general , and their significance most certainly will only grow when access and practices improve ( for discussion about the use of electronic corpora , see Федина , 2019 ; Чупров , 2018 ; Блокланд et al . , 2014 ) .
There are also numerous dialect materials in Komi , and their progressing digitization gives us access to an increasing number of materials hitherto unavailable in digital format .
When this process advances and we inevitably encounter more dialectal texts , we must also consider wider dialectal features of Komi when we develop the transducer .
Additionally , as there are two main Komi varieties with written standards and their dialects , Zyrian and Permyak , we must acknowledge that infrastructures for these languages can not be developed in isolation , but rather that both language variants must be taken into consideration in different ways ( Rueter et al . , 2020c ) .
At the same time , the respective written standards have needs for their own tools and resources that are still independent , so the whole question of how to best handle pluricentric language varieties such as Komi still needs additional planning .
The study is structured so that we first describe the work that has been done for modeling the morphosyntax of the Komi - Zyrian language .
Then we discuss individual features and their role in the description , and aim to illustrate the types of challenges they present .
As we believe that computational modeling of the language is directly connected to the linguistic description itself , we also discuss different phenomena and the ways our description is directly connected to the grammar .
2 Development history of the Komi - Zyrian FST The FST described here is primarily built by Jack Rueter , beginning with work in the 1990s .
The Komi - Zyrian finite - state description began with ⁶http://videocorpora.rua trilingual glossary Ӧшкамӧшка ичӧт кыввор , комиа - англискӧя - финскӧя ( Rueter , 1995 ) , designed for use by Finnish and English speaking students of Komi , without previous knowledge of Russian , to accompany the коми кыв ’ Komi language ’ reader ( Цыпанов , 1992 ) , used for instruction in the Universities of Helsinki and Turku .
Later , with a scholarship from the Kordelin Foundation , this vocabulary was augmented .
First , the extension was intended to complement a second Komi reader byМанова ( 1994 ) , and then to outline the Komi stem vocabulary of the Komi - Russian dictionary by Лыткин and Тимушев ( 1961 ) .
A large portion of the work done with this dictionary was only possible with the painstaking hours spent by Vera Chernykh .
Thus , the approximately 3000 - word glossary providing the lexical base for a finite - state description of Komi - Zyrian , presented at Permistika 6 at the Udmurt State University in Izhevsk , 1996 ( published in Rueter , 2000 ) , was extended to over 6000 lexical entries .
In 2004 Trond Trosterud invited Rueter to Tromsø to learn more about the Xerox Finite - state technology ( XFST ) being implemented at Giellatekno as described in ( Trosterud , 2004 ) and for Komi in ( Trosterud , 2004b ) .
Here the Komi transducer and lexicon were to be developed further than before , and to be connected to an infrastructure that was compatible with a larger array of languages .
To summarise some of the new improvements , there were no longer problems with Cyrillic letters requiring representation as conversions from Latin letters .
It was now possible to write rules directly addressing elements of the Komi orthography .
This direct use of the vernacular in the code may have , in fact , contributed to the belief of the developer that only the normative language needed description .
( It was not until many years later that work with other under - resourced languages , such as Mansi ( 2015 – present ) , Olonets - Karelian ( 2013 – present ) , Skolt Saami ( 2015 – present ) and Võro ( 2014 – present ) , made it obvious that non - standard words also require description . )
One of the most important items at this point was that the lexicon and morphology were open - source .
This meant , in turn , that Komi could be worked on by others and tested in projects .
Here , Komi was ideal .
The morphology is very concatenative , and the orthography contains only two more letters than the Russian , i.e. problems with some rarer Cyrillic letters could be evaluated and solved .
In 2012–2016 Paula Kokkonen worked in conjunction with one of Rueter ’s projects , where she improved the Finnish translations and inspected the English translations for Komi lexemes .
This work significantly increased the coverage of Finnish translations in the multilingual dictionary that was created in this point .
During the period 2012–2021 , FU - Lab and Giellatekno collaboration has featured active FST development , including multiple use , and especially improvement in the disambiguation rules and lexical coverage .
Morphological analysis is a central component in a modern corpus , and issues such as ambiguity are also always present when FST is used in this context ( Ӧньӧ Лав , 2015 , 140 ) .
Collaboration may also lead to unforeseeable development .
When two infrastructures are aligned , there are often competing priorities .
This has also been the case here , i.e. whereas FU - Lab has demonstrated immediate interest in the facilitation of writing , spell checking , dictionaries and corpora for the language community , Giellatekno has pushed for research - related morphological description , analysis and lexica for the research community , but which can , in fact , later be applied to the production of spell checking and other derivative tools .
This divergence in priority lead to some duplicate work in morphology .
Helsinki Finite - State Technology ( HFST ) ( Lindén et al . , 2013 ) at Giellatekno with multi - use priorities was pitted against the quick but single - use Hunspell strategies practiced at FU - Lab .
Thus , some of the technical complexities on the Giellatekno side had to be simplified so that one set of lexica might be shared .
Giellatekno had plenty to gain from the lexical work done at FU - Lab , on the one hand , but it was not able to capitalize on its own sophisticated two - level description as a result of it , on the other .
As regards morphophonological descriptions , stem - final variation had to be moved one step away from the initial LEMMA + COLON + STEM + CONTINUATIONLEXICON declaration in the code .
While Jack Rueter has often quickly followed the suggestion of XML maintenance of lexical materials , it has turned out that collaboration pulls away from this write - only - once policy .
The more people there are working with one data set , the more documentation required for maintaining mutual working principles .
Simple and complex XML systems alike require a working front - end , otherwise , as has been the case here , the workers opt out of the XMLdatabase and end up working more on materials that can not be readily integrated back into the system .
At the moment the XML transformation is not being used in FST development .
Instead , other solutions for database implementation are being worked on , see Alnajjar et al .
( 2020a ) ; Hämäläinen et al .
( 2021 )
.
Only time will reveal which directions of development have contributed the most to the infrastructure .
In 2018 - 2021 , Niko Partanen has been improving the dialectal lexicon coverage of the transducer while conducting his doctoral studies in Komi dialectology .
In connection to this work , in 20202021 , Jack Rueter has improved the coverage of dialectal morphology , specifically taking into account the phenomena found in the Izhma dialect .
This work by both of them was done within a Kone Foundation funded research project Language Documentation Meets Language Technology :
The Next Step in the Description of Komi .
The work shows that it is a feasible strategy to improve the analyser so that the work aligns with specific goals and needs of an individual project or dataset .
It does create an imbalance in to which degree different dialects are represented , but for a language as large as Komi doing everything at the same time is not possible either .
Mika Hämäläinen ’s role has been central in building more widely accessible computational infrastructure to access these transducers ( Hämäläinen , 2019 ) .
In the recent work to create an online editing platform that would allow improved access to the lexical materials , Khalid Alnajjar has been in an irreplaceable position ( Alnajjar et al . , 2020a ) .
This all shows that managing a transducer for a language like Komi is a multi - partnered operation that calls for wide collaboration between different groups and even infrastructures .
Since 2017 , work has been conducted within the Universal Dependencies project to better cover Komi varieties , most recently ( Zeman et al . , 2021 ) , see also Nivre et
al . ( 2020 ) .
There are two Zyrian treebanks ( Partanen et al . , 2018 ) , and work with Permyak progresses at many levels ( Rueter et al . , 2020c ) .
Especially in the initial phase of the treebank , building the finite - state descriptions is in a pivotal role , and maintaining interoperability between the FST and treebank development allows very efficient use of both systems .
A similar approach has also been systematically used for other languages , such as Karelian ( Pirinen , 2019a ) and
both Mordvinic languages ( Rueter et al . , 2020a ) .
Indeed , managing systematic and comparable use of tags and conventions across languages is one of the primary concerns in our work as well , and there have been specific surveys that try to track the progress of different Uralic treebanks ( Rueter and Partanen , 2019 ) .
We can also mention that the practices described here have also be adopted for the development of Amazon minority language description for Apurinã in Helsinki - Belém ( Rueter et al . , 2021 ) .
In the approach discussed here , this harmonization starts at the transducer level and the documentation therein .
In the context of concrete applications of the Komi FST , we can highlight work by Gerstenberger et al .
( 2017 ) , where the analyser was integrated into the popular multimedia annotation software ELAN .
In addition , the most significant Komi online resource , the National Komi Corpus , contains annotations done with the transducer ⁷.
Next we describe some of the challenges and important phenomena that have been addressed in various ways when creating the Komi analyser .
3
On describing regular morphology Komi regular morphology affects word forms in several parts of speech .
In addition to verbal conjugation and nominal declension , there is an abundance of regular morpheme - sememe alignment in derivation .
Whereas verbal conjugation is , indeed , limited to the indicative ( in four synthetic tenses ) and imperative moods , the complex noun - phrase head is associated with the categories of number ( singular and plural ) , possessive marking for three persons and two numbers as well as nearly thirty syntactic entity markers or cases .
Regular derivation can be observed in aspect , mediopassive and causative marking of verbs , as well as comparative and diminutive marking of nominals .
There is a plethora of single - syllable nouns and derivational suffixes , and , at times , the boundary between compounding and derivation becomes obscure .
3.1 Stem variation The Komi - Zyrian language is known to display a typologically common l - vocalization , which is a process where a lateral approximant is replaced by a labiodental fricative /v/ or labiodental approximant /ʋ/.
In the Komi grammaticography this is known as l / v variation .
Another comparable stem - alterating ⁷http://komicorpora.ruphenomena are the paragogic consonants in some word stems .
These phenomena can be dealt with in much the same way , as they share a common trigger .
Words with l / v or paragogic consonant variation in their stems can be identified on the basis of whether the stem is followed by an vowel - initial suffix , on the one hand , or a consonant - initial suffix ( alternatively word boundary ) , on the other .
In the description of these words it has been suggested that erroneous forms be specifically identified .
Special tags indicating the absence of paragogic consonants or substandard realization of the stem - final l / v have been implemented for KomiZyrian and reflect parallel tags previously implemented in the FST descriptions of other languages in the GiellaLT infrastructure , Northern and Skolt Saami , Erzya , Moksha , Võro to mention a few .
When we include more dialectal materials in the description , we also have to account for processes where l - vocalization triggers vowel lengthening .
There are also secondary types of l - vocalization , influencing stems ending in the sequence / -el/ , and triggering change / -ej/.
Currently this is treated at the lemma level , so that the non - standard forms are connected to the standard lemmas , with an additional tag indicating dialectal form or error .
Even the dialectal variants where neither types of the variation are met are exceptions from the point of view of the standard language .
We have devised a tagging system for various subtypes , but the exact implementation is still being designed and planned further .
We discuss in Section 4.2related challenges in more detail .
3.2 Case As mentioned above , there are nearly thirty syntactic entity markers or cases associated with complex noun phrases .
The distinction drawn here of cases versus derivations lies in the complexity of the noun phrase , i.e. compatibility with the category of number or presence of modifiers has been underlined as a possible boundary ( see Rueter , 2010 , 74–75 ; cf .
Ylikoski ( 2020 ) ) .
If a denominal adverbial derivation does not take adjectival or determiner modifiers , there is no syntactic need to distinguish it from other opaque adverbials .
On the contrary , it may be noted , syntactic elements that can take this kind of modifiers should be classified according to their syntactic merits .
( The term CASE should not be reguarded as a title of estate but as a useful indication of syntactic class membership . )
Here , we will further note that according to the SIL Glossary of Linguistic Terms ⁸case is defined as a grammatical category determined by the syntactic or semantic function of a noun or pronoun .
If we apply this to a regular morphological description of the Komi languages , we may choose to distinguish between derivational endings applied to simple NP heads and inflectional endings applied to complex NPheads .
By distinguishing these two varieties of inflection , we can arrive at a syntactic criterion for classifying different types of inflection , whereas the complex NP , which also takes marking for number , might be readily integrated into the enumeration of nominal modifiers , i.e. cases .
For nearly one and a half centuries , the 16 and 1 dependent cases as defined by Castrén ( 1844 ) have represented the canonical cases addressed in grammars of the Komi - Zyrian language .
The seventeenth case , the comitative , is addressed as a postposition , but all examples of it show it as integrated morphology in the noun .
Некрасова ( 2000 ) ( ‘ The Modern Komi Language ’ , ÖKK ) , published in 2000 broke with this tradition by including a set of compounded cases ( seven ) .
The 26 cases shown by the latest Komi grammar , may be further augmented to 29 by introducing the PROPRIETIVE , ABESSIVE andLOCATIVE cases , in -a , тӧм and - са , respectively .
The TEMPORAL in - ся might , as a function , be simply attributed to the already existing COMPARATIVE case .
Similar questions of case definition have been treated by one of the authors , Rueter ( 2010 ) , where he regards syntactic entity complexity as sufficient grounds for casehood , ( see also Ylikoski , 2020 ) .
Tauli ( 1956 ) , it should be noted , provides numerous references to researchers dealing with affixes , inclusive derivation and case , there does not seem to be any standards for distinction between case and derivation .
The Komi - Zyrian PROPRIETIVE refered to also as a nomen possessoris suffix а , which occurs as a ” comitative ” ( Tauli , 1956 ) , provides a challenge for the those wishing to distinguish Kom proprietive -а , comitative -кӧд and instrumental -ӧн .
Not unlike the PROPRIETIVE , the ABESSIVE , LOCATIVEand even the temporal function of the COMPARATIVE case are almost entirely limited in use to the adnominal range .
The ABESSIVE has a predicative counterpart in the CARATIVE -тӧг , while the LOCATIVE has a predicative counterpart in the INESSIVE ын .
Perhaps this range distinction has also played ⁸https://glossary.sil.org/term/casea part so - called case classification .
The adnominal TEMPORAL marker , however , seems to have no morphological counterpart for use in the predicative .
3.3 Accusative versus object marking One of the dilemmas in Komi morphosyntax is where to introduce the object of a sentence .
Actual non - ambiguous accusative forms are attested for pronouns and other NPheads , but the accusative is not the only case used for indicating the object , theZERO marker strategy is also used for this purpose .
Hence , one might readily speak of object marking with the nominative .
Canonic practice in the Komi grammaticography has been to include the nominative , ZERO form , as an additional accusative case form .
If we introduce ZERO as an accusative case marker as well , we , essentially , be introducing ambiguity on the text on the analysis level .
Komi is known for its use of singular possessive suffixes in the accusative for marking different degrees of identifiability ; zero , i.e. nominative marking , is also a possibility .
When we also have the full syntactic dependency tree , the ambiguity between nominatives and unmarked accusative is resolved , as the object relation is unambiguously marked and connected to the root verb .
The current solution in the morphological modeling has been to resolve all unmarked wordforms as nominatives , and to leave the nominative - accusative distinction into a later step of the analysis .
None the less , we recognize this is only one of the various ways this can be analysed , and when the full analysis comes , we essentially have all the information to transform the material to match various existing traditions .
3.4 Nominal morpheme ordering This section will investigate the ordering of morphological constituents typically associated with nominals and convey meaning associated with the categories of number , possession and case .
In initial collaboration with FU - Lab , a singular set of morpheme ordering was adopted for each individual combination of possessor & case marking .
Hence , it was determined that the word form батьӧйлӧн « бать-ӧй - лӧн ’ father . N - PxSg1 - Gen ’ featuring the ӧйmarking for the first person singular possessor could be distinguished from the possessive suffix ымinгортӧдзым « горт-ӧдз - ым ’ home .
N - Ter - PxSg1 ’ on the basis of complementary distribution , i.e. there was no need to label the possessive suffixes as separate entities .
In later development , however , a different issue was observed in which case and possessive formatives might show varied ordering .
Although this phenomenon is not as prevalent as in the Meadow and Eastern Mari language ( cf . Luutonen ( 1997 ) ) , it did merit recognition and distinction for the facilitation of further resource .
The distinguishing tags strategy implemented for Meadow Mari and Hill Mari has been adapted for use with Komi - Zyrian with two tags .
One tag indicates segment ordering where the possessive marker precedes the case marker ( + So / PC ) , and the other indicates the case marker precedes the possessive marker ( + So / CP ) , e.g. кӧзяиныслань←кӧзяиныс - лань ’ owner .
N - PxSg3 - Apr ’ кӧзяинланьыс← кӧзяин - лань - ыс ’ owner .
N - Apr - PxSg3 ’ .
In addition to this relatively infrequent type of ordering variation of cases versus possessive suffixes , there also appears to be use of the accusative possessive suffix markers for second -тӧand third -сӧ person on noun and adjective phrase heads , where the accusative case would not be syntactically compatible .
In fact , these same endings are found in connection with other parts of speech as well .
It has been maintained that these morphological constituents convey discourse meaning , but there is still much to investigate and establishing tagging practices for these features will contribute to better research materials in the future .
3.5 Numeral derivations In Komi , numerals are regularly derived to form subgroups in cardinals ZERO , ordinals -ӧд , distributives-ӧн , iteratives -ысь , ordinal iteratives -ӧдысь and distributional iteratives -ысьӧн ( Rueter et al . , 2020c ) .
As such , it is often novel or even confounding that we find the syntactic adverbial role found across languages is attributed to a regularly derived adverb кыкысь ’ twice ’ on the Komi side , on the one hand , and a noun phrase fifty times ’ ветымынысь ’ , on the other .
Like other adnominal modifiers , it should be noted , numerals may also be promoted to NPhead position in instances of contextually motivated ellipsis .
4 Development plan We have recently moved into primarily data - driven development practice for Komi , where new lexicon and morphology is described primarily based on gaps we find through analysed language materi - als .
At the same time we have developed further tests to check the validity of the output , and in the long term these approaches naturally will live on in parallel .
Needless to say , using more natural texts has also forced us to take into account more spoken language and dialect phenomena , which moves the work into quite new directions , which we have already discussed partially above .
After reporting our experiments with the written corpus data , we discuss our plan to integrate the dialectal materials and tags better to the currently discussed Komi analyser .
4.1 Developing on the basis of unrecognized words and word forms From a corpus of 1,415,210 unique word forms ( 2020 - 11 - 11 ) 520,180 were not recognized by the analyzer .
Aside from the Russian words , apparently from quoted text , and words written entirely in upper case , the most frequent words not to be recognized by the FST seem to all involve hyphens .
The use of hyphenation is best illiustrated by РытывВойвыв the preposed modifier for direction ’ north northwest ’ ( 1377 times ) , a drawn out pronunciation Но - о ’ Well - l ’ ( 1177 times ) , and the orthographic practice of adding -мӧд ’ another ’ in здук - мӧд ’ yet another moment ’ ( 942 times ) .
Since over a third of the unique word forms had gone unrecognized , a strategy was developed for improving the model .
This would be carried out for nominals initially and subsequently verbs .
As described below , a very large portion of unrecognized forms involved various plurals .
How they were dealt with is described below , as it illustrates well the challenges we have encountered and their possible solutions .
In the Komi - Zyrian morphology there are two separate plural markers associated with nominal declension .
One is the NPplural marker ясand the other is the copula complement plural marker ӧсь .
20604 unrecognized word forms ended in яс , and in 11441 of these the plural marker was preceded by a Cyrillic hard sign ъ .
This number was was further delimited by removing all instances of hyphenation and vfollowed by Cyrillic hard sign and wordfinalяс .
Where the hyphen may have meant compound words for simple hyphenation in the text , the removal of vmeant we could automatically avoid the problem of determining whether the word stem contained the notorious l / vvariation or not .
Our resulting figure was 8766 .
After entering 15,101 new stems the number of unrecognized unique word forms dropped to 422,227 , which was nearly a nineteen per cent improvement over the previous 520,180 .
In the future we plan to go further through the frequency list of unknown word forms and improve the analyzer so that individual yet frequent phenomena is adequately described and addressed .
4.2 Treatment of dialectal elements Currently the FST is designed so that dialectal elements are recognized , but they come with an additional error or dialect tag which prevents them being suggested in tools such as spellcheckers .
We have also experimented with approaches where Zyrian , Permyak and Russian analysers are run on top of one another , so that unknown forms may be captured by one of the systems with appropriate language tags returned .
Since some Zyrian dialectal phenomena is also present in Permyak standard language , already this solution helps to improve the coverage .
Eventually , however , we consider it important that the analyser could capture nuances of individual dialects .
In principle this could be accompanied with dialect specific tags , but this approach is also problematic .
Many of the features are not strictly found in singular dialects , but cover larger regions .
At the same time the speech of any individual is not necessarily limited to any specific variety .
Moreover , we believe that further research in Komi dialect isoglosses may be necessary to exactly point for each feature where they definitely occur .
Some rough areal boundaries , however , are well known and clear cut , which would make some areal tags potentially useful .
Features that currently are not included are especially those found from southern and eastern Zyrian dialects , mainly because nobody has attempted to use an FST with those varieties yet .
We must also recognize that Permyak and Zyrian dialects overlap in their features in various ways , and especially the creation of infrastructure that handless all Komi varieties and both standards remains a challenge .
5 Future directions and Conclusions In recent years many neural network based approaches have been becoming popular and also shown good results .
In a recent study by Pirinen ( 2019b ) the neural models were better than the traditional rule - based approaches for Finnish .
Ourteam is always following new developments of the field , but we also believe that different approaches can be successfully combined .
We already see studies emerging where a neural network has been used to learn to generate predictions from an FST ( Hämäläinen et al . , 2021 ) .
Their research is also used the Komi - Zyrian FST presented in this paper .
The results were promising and we are eager to see how this ideology of using neural networks and rule - based systems side by side rather than as competing systems plays out in the future .
For the NLP pipeline of Komi the most important new developments will be connected to improvements in the dependency parsing side of the analysis , ideally in connection to automatic and rule - based methods of disambiguation .
Komi Constraint Grammar has currently focused to disambiguation , and the tagging and parsing sections are largely missing .
It remains to be seen what kind of an approach will be the most successful here .
At the same time Komi Universal Dependencies treebanks have started to be large enough that their further modeling with deep learning starts to be an attractive and possibly fruitful task .
Komi texts are also present in many different orthographies , and taking all of them into account is a large and important task ( Rueter and Ponomareva , 2019 ) .
Since the corpora of Latin Komi texts are also now available ⁹ , the future for these lines of research is exciting and promising .
This also connects to various transcription systems used in linguistic publications and text collections : these materials should be republished in the contemporary orthography in order to make them maximally useful for the language communities themselves .
Yet another future task is to provide access to the multilingual Komi lexicon the FST is based on in a form that is truly accessible and openly available .
One solution could be to use online dictionary editing platforms , which are strongly linked to the FST development work , and thereby benefit it directly ( Alnajjar et al . , 2020b ) .
These lexicons have already been published in Zenodo ( Rueter et al . , 2020b ) , and already their earliest version has been published in print ( Rueter , 1995 ) .
Thereby the work described here in various ways continues an already 25 years old progress at morphological modeling of the Komi language , and explores new ways to connect various threads of existing work to one another , especially in ways that takes into account the tech⁹http://latina.komicorpora.ru/
nological and practical changes that these decades have shown .
We believe this line of investigation of the Komi language will boldly continue the next 25 years , but also hope the reports of how the work progresses will become even more regularly .
We also foresee that further development of the Komi FST will bring new tools to benefit both the public and research communities .
Such might be machine translation , on the one hand ( Tiedemann , 2021 ) , and translation studies , on the other ( cf .
Цыпанов , 2021 ) .
This , of course , does not close the circle , but merely the ever continuous spiral of development .
Acknowledgements As described in the study above , this work on Komi has been funded by Alfred Kordelin Foundation and Kone Foundation .
References Malin Ahlberg , Lars Borin , Markus Forsberg , Martin Hammarstedt , Leif - Jöran Olsson , Olof Olsson , Johan Roxendal , and Jonatan Uppström .
2013 .
Korp and Karp – a bestiary of language resources : the research infrastructure of Språkbanken .
In Proceedings of the 19th Nordic Conference of Computational Linguistics ( NODALIDA 2013 ) , pages 429–433 .
Khalid Alnajjar , Mika Hämäläinen , and Jack Rueter . 2020a .
On editing dictionaries for Uralic languages in an online environment .
In Proceedings of the Sixth International Workshop on Computational Linguistics of Uralic Languages , pages 26–30 .
Khalid Alnajjar , Mika Hämäläinen , Jack Rueter , and Niko Partanen .
2020b .
Ve’rdd .
narrowing the gap between paper dictionaries , low - resource nlp and community involvement .
arXiv preprint arXiv:2012.02578 .
Timofey Arkhangelskiy .
2019 .
Corpora of social media in minority Uralic languages .
In Proceedings of the Fifth International Workshop on Computational Linguistics for Uralic Languages , pages 125–140 .
Rogier Blokland , Vasily Chuprov , Maria Fedina , Marina Fedina , Dmitry Levchenko , Niko Partanen , and Michael Rießler .
2014–2016 .
Spoken Komi Corpus .
The Language Bank of Finland version .
M.A. Castrén .
1844 .
Elementa Grammatices Syrjaenae .
Ex officina typographica heredum Simelii , Helsingforsiae .
Ciprian Gerstenberger , Niko Tapio Partanen , Michael Rießler , and Joshua Wilbur . 2017 .
Instant annotations : Applying NLP methods to the annotation of spoken language documentation corpora .
In International Workshop for Computational Linguistics ofUralic Languages , pages 25–36 .
The Association for Computational Linguistics .
Mika Hämäläinen , Khalid Alnajjar , Jack Rueter , Miika Lehtinen , and Niko Partanen . 2021 .
An online tool developed for post - editing the new Skolt Sami dictionary .
InElectronic lexicography in the 21st century ( eLex 2021 ) .
Proceedings of the eLex 2021 conference , pages 653–664 , Czech Republic .
Lexical Computing CZ s.r.o .
Mika Hämäläinen .
2019 .
UralicNLP :
An NLP library for Uralic languages .Journal of Open Source Software , 4(37):1345 .
Mika Hämäläinen , Niko Partanen , Jack Rueter , and Khalid Alnajjar . 2021 .
Neural Morphology Dataset and Models for Multiple Languages , from the Large to the Endangered .
In Proceedings of the the 23rd Nordic Conference on Computational Linguistics ( NoDaLiDa 2021 )
.
Krister Lindén , Erik Axelson , Senka Drobac , Sam Hardwick , Juha Kuokkala , Jyrki Niemi , Tommi A Pirinen , and Miikka Silfverberg .
2013 .
HFST a system for creating NLP tools .
In International Workshop on Systems and Frameworks for Computational Morphology , pages 53–71 .
Springer .
Jorma Luutonen .
1997 .
The Variation of Morpheme Order in Mari Declension , volume 226 of SuomalaisUgrilaisen Seuran Toimituksia .
Suomalais - Ugrilainen Seura , Helsinki .
Sjur Moshagen , Jack Rueter , Tommi Pirinen , Trond Trosterud , and Francis M. Tyers .
2014 .
Opensource infrastructures for collaborative work on under - resourced languages .
The LREC 2014 Workshop “ CCURL 2014 - Collaboration and Computing for Under - Resourced Languages in the Linked Open Data Era ” .
Joakim Nivre , Marie - Catherine de Marneffe , Filip Ginter , Jan Hajič , Christopher D. Manning , Sampo Pyysalo , Sebastian Schuster , Francis Tyers , and Daniel Zeman .
2020 .
Universal Dependencies v2 : An evergrowing multilingual treebank collection .
InProceedings of the 12th Language Resources and Evaluation Conference , pages 4034–4043 , Marseille , France .
European Language Resources Association .
Niko Partanen , Rogier Blokland , KyungTae Lim , Thierry Poibeau , and Michael Rießler .
2018 .
The first Komi - Zyrian Universal Dependencies treebanks .
In Second Workshop on Universal Dependencies ( UDW 2018 ) , November 2018 , Brussels , Belgium , pages 126 – 132 .
Tommi A Pirinen .
2019a .
Building minority dependency treebanks , dictionaries and computational grammars at the same time — an experiment in Karelian treebanking .
In Proceedings of the Third Workshop on Universal Dependencies ( UDW , SyntaxFest 2019 ) , pages 132–136 .
Tommi A Pirinen .
2019b .
Neural and rule - based finnish NLP models — expectations , experiments and experiences .
In Proceedings of the Fifth International Workshop on Computational Linguistics for Uralic Languages , pages 104–114 .
Jack Rueter .
2000 .
Hel’sinkisa universitetyn kyv tujalys ’ Ižkaryn perymsa simpozium vylyn lydd’ömtor .
InPermistika 6 ( Proceedings of Permistika 6 conference ) , pages 154–158 .
Jack Rueter .
2010 .
Adnominal person in the morphological system of Erzya .
Number 261 in Suomalaisugrilaisen seuran toimituksia .
Suomalais - Ugrilainen Seura , Finland .
Jack Rueter and Erik Axelson .
2020 .
Raamatun jakeita uralilaisille kielille : rinnakkaiskorpus , sekoitettu , korp [ tekstikorpus ] .
Jack Rueter , Marília Fernanda Pereira de Freitas , Sidney Da Silva Facundes , Mika Hämäläinen , and Niko Partanen . 2021 .
Apurinã Universal Dependencies treebank .
InProceedings of the First Workshop on Natural Language Processing for Indigenous Languages of the Americas , pages 28–33 , Online .
Association for Computational Linguistics .
Jack Rueter , Mika Hämäläinen , and Niko Partanen . 2020a .
Open - source morphology for endangered Mordvinic languages .
In Proceedings of Second Workshop for NLP Open Source Software ( NLP - OSS ) .
The Association for Computational Linguistics .
Jack Rueter , Paula Kokkonen , and Marina Fedina .
2020b .
Komi - zyrian - to - x dictionary work .
Zenodo data repository , version 0.5.1 .
Jack Rueter and Niko Partanen . 2019 .
Survey of Uralic Universal Dependencies development .
In Third Workshop on Universal Dependencies ( UDW , SyntaxFest 2019 ) Proceedings .
The Association for Computational Linguistics .
Jack Rueter , Niko Partanen , and Larisa Ponomareva .
2020c .
On the questions in developing computational infrastructure for Komi - Permyak .
In Proceedings of the Sixth International Workshop on Computational Linguistics of Uralic Languages , pages 15–25 .
Jack Rueter and Larisa Ponomareva .
2019 .
Komi latin letters , degrees of UNICODE facilitation .
Proceedings of the Language Technologies for All ( LT4All ) .
Jack Michael Rueter .
1995 .
Komia - anglisköj - finskoj = Komi - English - Finnish = Komilais - englantilaissuomalainen .
Self - published .
V. Tauli .
1956 .
The origin of affixes .
Finnisch - ugrische Forschungen , XXXII(Heft 1–2):170–225 .
Jörg Tiedemann .
2021 .
The development of a comprehensive data set for systematic studies of machine translation .
In Mika Hämäläinen , Niko Partanen , and Khalid Alnajjar , editors , Multilingual Facilitation , pages 248–262 .
Rootroo Ltd. , Helsinki .
This bookhas been authored for Jack Rueter in honor of his 60th birthday .
Trond Trosterud .
2004 .
Porting morphological analysis and disambiguation to new languages .
In SALTMIL Workshop at LREC 2004 : First Steps in Language Documentation for Minority Languages , pages 90–92 .
Trond Trosterud .
2004b .
Porting morphological analysis and disambiguation to new languages .
InPoster presented at SALTMIL Workshop at LREC 2004 :
First Steps in Language Documentation for Minority Languages .
Jussi Ylikoski .
2020 .
Kielemme kääpiösijoista : prolatiivi , temporaali ja distributiivi .
Virittäjä , ( 4):529–554 .
Daniel Zeman , Joakim Nivre , Mitchell Abrams , Elia Ackermann , Noëmi Aepli , Hamid Aghaei , Željko Agić , Amir Ahmadi , Lars Ahrenberg , Chika Kennedy Ajede , Gabrielė Aleksandravičiūtė , Ika Alfina , Lene Antonsen , Katya Aplonova , Angelina Aquino , Carolina Aragon , Maria Jesus Aranzabe , Bilge Nas Arıcan , H ͡órunn Arnardóttir , Gashaw Arutie , Jessica Naraiswari Arwidarasti , Masayuki Asahara , Deniz Baran Aslan , Luma Ateyah , Furkan Atmaca , Mohammed Attia , Aitziber Atutxa , Liesbeth Augustinus , Elena Badmaeva , Keerthana Balasubramani , Miguel Ballesteros , Esha Banerjee , Sebastian Bank , Verginica Barbu Mititelu , Starkaður Barkarson , Victoria Basmov , Colin Batchelor , John Bauer , Seyyit Talha Bedir , Kepa Bengoetxea , Gözde Berk , Yevgeni Berzak , Irshad Ahmad Bhat , Riyaz Ahmad Bhat , Erica Biagetti , Eckhard Bick , Agnė Bielinskienė , Kristín Bjarnadóttir , Rogier Blokland , Victoria Bobicev , Loïc Boizou , Emanuel Borges Völker , Carl Börstell , Cristina Bosco , Gosse Bouma , Sam Bowman , Adriane Boyd , Anouck Braggaar , Kristina Brokaitė , Aljoscha Burchardt , Marie Candito , Bernard Caron , Gauthier Caron , Lauren Cassidy , Tatiana Cavalcanti , Gülşen Cebiroğlu Eryiğit , Flavio Massimiliano Cecchini , Giuseppe G. A. Celano , Slavomír Čéplö , Neslihan Cesur , Savas Cetin , Özlem Çetinoğlu , Fabricio Chalub , Shweta Chauhan , Ethan Chi , Taishi Chika , Yongseok Cho , Jinho Choi , Jayeol Chun , Alessandra T. Cignarella , Silvie Cinková , Aurélie Collomb , Çağrı Çöltekin , Miriam Connor , Marine Courtin , Mihaela Cristescu , Philemon .
Daniel , Elizabeth Davidson , Marie - Catherine de Marneffe , Valeria de Paiva , Mehmet Oguz Derin , Elvis de Souza , Arantza Diaz de Ilarraza , Carly Dickerson , Arawinda Dinakaramani , Elisa Di Nuovo , Bamba Dione , Peter Dirix , Kaja Dobrovoljc , Timothy Dozat , Kira Droganova , Puneet Dwivedi , Hanne Eckhoff , Sandra Eiche , Marhaba Eli , Ali Elkahky , Binyam Ephrem , Olga Erina , Tomaž Erjavec , Aline Etienne , Wograine Evelyn , Sidney Facundes , Richárd Farkas , Marília Fernanda , Hector Fernandez Alcalde , Jennifer Foster , Cláudia Freitas , Kazunori Fujita , Katarína Gajdošová , Daniel Galbraith , Marcos Garcia , Moa Gärdenfors , Sebastian Garza , Fabrício Ferraz Gerardi , Kim Gerdes , Filip Ginter , Gustavo Godoy , Iakes Goenaga , Koldo Gojenola , Memduh Gökırmak , Yoav Goldberg , Xavier Gómez Guinovart , Berta González Saavedra , Bernadeta Griciūtė ,
Matias Grioni , Loïc Grobol , Normunds Grūzītis , Bruno Guillaume , Céline Guillot - Barbance , Tunga Güngör , Nizar Habash , Hinrik Hafsteinsson , Jan Hajič , Jan Hajič jr . , Mika Hämäläinen , Linh Hà Mỹ , Na - Rae Han , Muhammad Yudistira Hanifmuti , Sam Hardwick , Kim Harris , Dag Haug , Johannes Heinecke , Oliver Hellwig , Felix Hennig , Barbora Hladká , Jaroslava Hlaváčová , Florinel Hociung , Petter Hohle , Eva Huber , Jena Hwang , Takumi Ikeda , Anton Karl Ingason , Radu Ion , Elena Irimia , Ọlájídé Ishola , Kaoru Ito , Tomáš Jelínek , Apoorva Jha , Anders Johannsen , Hildur Jónsdóttir , Fredrik Jørgensen , Markus Juutinen , Sarveswaran K , Hüner Kaşıkara , Andre Kaasen , Nadezhda Kabaeva , Sylvain Kahane , Hiroshi Kanayama , Jenna Kanerva , Neslihan Kara , Boris Katz , Tolga Kayadelen , Jessica Kenney , Václava Kettnerová , Jesse Kirchner , Elena Klementieva , Arne Köhn , Abdullatif Köksal , Kamil Kopacewicz , Timo Korkiakangas , Natalia Kotsyba , Jolanta Kovalevskaitė , Simon Krek , Parameswari Krishnamurthy , Oğuzhan Kuyrukçu , Aslı Kuzgun , Sookyoung Kwak , Veronika Laippala , Lucia Lam , Lorenzo Lambertino , Tatiana Lando , Septina Dian Larasati , Alexei Lavrentiev , John Lee , Phương Lê Hồng , Alessandro Lenci , Saran Lertpradit , Herman Leung , Maria Levina , Cheuk Ying Li , Josie Li , Keying Li , Yuan Li , KyungTae Lim , Bruna Lima Padovani , Krister Lindén , Nikola Ljubešić , Olga Loginova , Andry Luthfi , Mikko Luukko , Olga Lyashevskaya , Teresa Lynn , Vivien Macketanz , Aibek Makazhanov , Michael Mandl , Christopher Manning , Ruli Manurung , Büşra Marşan , Cătălina Mărănduc , David Mareček , Katrin Marheinecke , Héctor Martínez Alonso , André Martins , Jan Mašek , Hiroshi Matsuda , Yuji Matsumoto , Alessandro Mazzei , Ryan McDonald , Sarah McGuinness , Gustavo Mendonça , Niko Miekka , Karina Mischenkova , Margarita Misirpashayeva , Anna Missilä , Cătălin Mititelu , Maria Mitrofan , Yusuke Miyao , AmirHossein Mojiri Foroushani , Judit Molnár , Amirsaeid Moloodi , Simonetta Montemagni , Amir More , Laura Moreno Romero , Giovanni Moretti , Keiko Sophie Mori , Shinsuke Mori , Tomohiko Morioka , Shigeki Moro , Bjartur Mortensen , Bohdan Moskalevskyi , Kadri Muischnek , Robert Munro , Yugo Murawaki , Kaili Müürisep , Pinkey Nainwani , Mariam Nakhlé , Juan Ignacio Navarro Horñiacek , Anna Nedoluzhko , Gunta Nešpore - Bērzkalne , Manuela Nevaci , Lương Nguyễn Thị , Huyền Nguyễn Thị Minh , Yoshihiro Nikaido , Vitaly Nikolaev , Rattima Nitisaroj , Alireza Nourian , Hanna Nurmi , Stina Ojala , Atul Kr .
Ojha , Adédayọ ̀Olúòkun , Mai Omura , Emeka Onwuegbuzia , Petya Osenova , Robert Östling , Lilja Øvrelid , Şaziye Betül Özateş , Merve Özçelik , Arzucan Özgür , Balkız Öztürk Başaran , Hyunji Hayley Park , Niko Partanen , Elena Pascual , Marco Passarotti , Agnieszka Patejuk , Guilherme PaulinoPassos , Angelika Peljak - Łapińska , Siyao Peng , CenelAugusto Perez , Natalia Perkova , Guy Perrier , Slav Petrov , Daria Petrova , Jason Phelan , Jussi Piitulainen , Tommi A Pirinen , Emily Pitler , Barbara Plank , Thierry Poibeau , Larisa Ponomareva , Martin Popel , Lauma Pretkalniņa , Sophie Prévost , Prokopis Proko - pidis , Adam Przepiórkowski , Tiina Puolakainen , Sampo Pyysalo , Peng Qi , Andriela Rääbis , Alexandre Rademaker , Taraka Rama , Loganathan Ramasamy , Carlos Ramisch , Fam Rashel , Mohammad Sadegh Rasooli , Vinit Ravishankar , Livy Real , Petru Rebeja , Siva Reddy , Georg Rehm , Ivan Riabov , Michael Rießler , Erika Rimkutė , Larissa Rinaldi , Laura Rituma , Luisa Rocha , Eiríkur Rögnvaldsson , Mykhailo Romanenko , Rudolf Rosa , Valentin Roșca , Davide Rovati , Olga Rudina , Jack Rueter , Kristján Rúnarsson , Shoval Sadde , Pegah Safari , Benoît Sagot , Aleksi Sahala , Shadi Saleh , Alessio Salomoni , Tanja Samardžić , Stephanie Samson , Manuela Sanguinetti , Ezgi Sanıyar , Dage Särg , Baiba Saulīte , Yanin Sawanakunanon , Shefali Saxena , Kevin Scannell , Salvatore Scarlata , Nathan Schneider , Sebastian Schuster , Lane Schwartz , Djamé Seddah , Wolfgang Seeker , Mojgan Seraji , Mo Shen , Atsuko Shimada , Hiroyuki Shirasu , Yana Shishkina , Muh Shohibussirri , Dmitry Sichinava , Janine Siewert , Einar Freyr Sigurðsson , Aline Silveira , Natalia Silveira , Maria Simi , Radu Simionescu , Katalin Simkó , Mária Šimková , Kiril Simov , Maria Skachedubova , Aaron Smith , Isabela Soares - Bastos , Carolyn Spadine , Rachele Sprugnoli , Steinh ͡ór Steingrímsson , Antonio Stella , Milan Straka , Emmett Strickland , Jana Strnadová , Alane Suhr , Yogi Lesmana Sulestio , Umut Sulubacak , Shingo Suzuki , Zsolt Szántó , Dima Taji , Yuta Takahashi , Fabio Tamburini , Mary Ann C. Tan , Takaaki Tanaka , Samson Tella , Isabelle Tellier , Marinella Testori , Guillaume Thomas , Liisi Torga , Marsida Toska , Trond Trosterud , Anna Trukhina , Reut Tsarfaty , Utku Türk , Francis Tyers , Sumire Uematsu , Roman Untilov , Zdeňka Urešová , Larraitz Uria , Hans Uszkoreit , Andrius Utka , Sowmya Vajjala , Rob van der Goot , Martine Vanhove , Daniel van Niekerk , Gertjan van Noord , Viktor Varga , Eric Villemonte de la Clergerie , Veronika Vincze , Natalia Vlasova , Aya Wakasa , Joel C. Wallenberg , Lars Wallin , Abigail Walsh , Jing Xian Wang , Jonathan North Washington , Maximilan Wendt , Paul Widmer , Seyi Williams , Mats Wirén , Christian Wittern , Tsegay Woldemariam , Tak - sum Wong , Alina Wróblewska , Mary Yako , Kayo Yamashita , Naoki Yamazaki , Chunxiao Yan , Koichi Yasuoka , Marat M. Yavrumyan , Arife Betül Yenice , Olcay Taner Yıldız , Zhuoran Yu , Zdeněk Žabokrtský , Shorouq Zahra , Amir Zeldes , Hanzhi Zhu , Anna Zhuravleva , and Rayan Ziane .
2021 .
Universal dependencies 2.8.1 .
LINDAT / CLARIAH - CZ digital library at the Institute of Formal and Applied Linguistics ( ÚFAL ) , Faculty of Mathematics and Physics , Charles University .
Р Блокланд , М Рисслер , Н Партанен , А Чемышев , and М Федина .
2014 .
Использование цифровых корпусов и компьютерных программ в диалектологических исследованиях : теория и практика .
In Актуальные проблемы диалектологии языков народов России : материалы XIV всеросс .
науч .
конф . , посвященной , pages 20–22 .
В.И. Лыткин and Д.А. Тимушев .
1961 .
Коми-
русский словарь .
Государственное издательство уностранных и национальных словарей , Москва .
Н.Д. Манова .
1994 .
Учимся говорить по - коми .
Самоучитель коми языка .
Коми книжное издательство , Сыктывкар .
Г. Некрасова .
2000 .
Эмакыв .
In Г. В. Федюнёва , editor,Ӧнія коми кыв , морфология .
Россияса наукаяс академия , Коми наука шӧрин , Сыктывкар .
Марина Серафимовна Федина .
2019 .
Корпус коми языка как база для научных исследований .
InII Международная научная конференция « Электронная письменность народов Российской Федерации : опыт , проблемы и перспективы » проводится в рамках реализации Государственной программы « Сохранение и развитие государственных языков Республики Башкортостан и языков народов Республики Башкортостан » на 2019 – 2024 гг .
Ответственный редактор : Ахмадеева АУ , page 45 .
Евгений Александрович Цыпанов .
1992 .
Коми кыв : самоучитель коми языкаю .
Коми кн .
изд - во , Сыктывкар .
Йöлгинь Цыпанов .
2021 .
Питирим Сорокинлысь « a long journey » небöг комиöдöмын шыбöльяс .
In Mika Hämäläinen , Niko Partanen , and Khalid Alnajjar , editors , Multilingual Facilitation , pages 94–103 .
Rootroo Ltd. , Helsinki .
This book has been authored for Jack Rueter in honor of his 60th birthday .
Василий Пантелеймонович Чупров .
2018 .
Электронный корпус ижемского диалекта коми языка как ресурс для исследования речи ижемских коми .
In Говоры Республики Коми и сопредельных областей , pages 158–170 .
Ӧньӧ Лав . 2015 .
Видзам - сӧвмӧдам коми кыв !
Арт , ( 3):135–144 .
