Proceedings of the 4th Workshop on NLP for Conversational AI , pages 218 - 230 May 27 , 2022 © 2022 Association for Computational Linguistics Understanding and Improving the Exemplar - based Generation for Open - domain Conversation Seungju Han† , Beomsu Kim† , Seokjun Seo† , Enkhbayar Erdenee† , Buru Chang∗ Hyperconnect { seungju.han,beomsu.kim,seokjun.seo,enkhbayar.erdenee,buru.chang}@hpcnt.com
Abstract Exemplar - based generative models for opendomain conversation produce responses based on the exemplars provided by the retriever , taking advantage of generative models and retrieval models .
However , due to the oneto - many problem of the open - domain conversation , they often ignore the retrieved exemplars while generating responses or produce responses over - fitted to the retrieved exemplars .
To address these advantages , we introduce a training method selecting exemplars that are semantically relevant to the gold response but lexically distanced from the gold response .
In the training phase , our training method first uses the gold response instead of dialogue context as a query to select exemplars that are semantically relevant to the gold response .
And then , it eliminates the exemplars that lexically resemble the gold responses to alleviate the dependency of the generative models on that exemplars .
The remaining exemplars could be irrelevant to the given context since they are searched depending on the gold response .
Thus , our training method further utilizes the relevance scores between the given context and the exemplars to penalize the irrelevant exemplars .
Extensive experiments demonstrate that our proposed training method alleviates the drawbacks of the existing exemplar - based generative models and significantly improves the performance in terms of appropriateness and informativeness .
1 Introduction Exemplar - based generative models ( Wu et al . , 2019 ; Weston et al . , 2018 ; Cai et al . , 2019b ; Gupta et al . , 2021 ) for open - domain conversation combine a retrieval model ( Humeau et al . , 2019 ; Mazare et
al . , 2018 ; Kim et al . , 2021 ) and a generative model ( Adiwardana et al . , 2020 ; Roller et al . , 2021 ; †Equal contribution ∗Corresponding author Given context A : Do you ever feel like time is just going by way too fast ?
Retrieved exemplar B : It 's hard to get anything done with coworkers around .
Generated responses B : Do you have any hobbies that you like to do   while you 're at work ?
like gardening?(a ) RetNRef ( Weston et al , 2018 ) B :
It 's hard to get things done with coworkers   when you 're busy all the time .(c )
RetNRef w/ CORGE ( Ours)B : OMG ! especially recently .
a week seems like one day .
A :
Yes !
Time especially goes by fast when I 'm working at my job .  
I 'm constantly busy .
B :
It 's hard to get around .
anything done with coworkers   gets to get done with anything .(b )
RetNRef ( Roller et al , 2021)𝛼Figure 1 : Responses generated by the three exemplarbased generative models .
RetNRef ignores the exemplar during response generation , RetNRef αgenerates the response highly over - fitted to the exemplar , and RetNRef trained with our training method ( CORGE ) well utilizes the exemplar to produce a more fluent response than that of the others .
Zhang
et al . , 2020 ; Brown et al . , 2020 ) into a single framework to generate responses in two steps : ( 1 ) the retriever searches an exemplar using the given context as a query , and ( 2 ) the generator produces a response based on the given context and the retrieved exemplar .
Exemplar - based generative models produce more specific responses than vanilla generative models while being more fluent than retrieval models .
Despite their success , exemplar - based generative models have two major shortcomings .
Primitive exemplar - based generative models ( Weston et al . , 2018 ; Cai et al . , 2019a ) tend to entirely ignore the exemplars and produce responses similar to those of vanilla generative models .
This is due to the one - to - many problem ( Li et al . , 2016 ) where there are many possible responses for each dialogue context .
During the training phase , the retrieved exemplar is not helpful for generating the gold response when the exemplar retrieved for the given context is significantly different from the gold response.218
This leads exemplar - based generative models to ignore the exemplar while generating responses , as shown in Figure 1(a ) .
To address this issue , recent exemplar - based generative models utilize the gold response ( Roller et al . , 2021 ) or the slightly perturbed gold response ( Cai et al . , 2019b ) as an exemplar in the training phase .
However , these training methods cause the generator to rely heavily on the retrieved exemplar , i.e. the generator resorts to copying the provided tokens , as shown in Figure 1(b ) .
These two disadvantages of existing exemplar - based generative models can adversely affect the quality of the generated response .
Therefore , we introduce CORGE ( COnnecting Retriever and GEnerator ) , a simple training method of exemplar - based generative models considering the one - to - many problem of the open - domain conversation .
As inspired by Wu et al . ( 2019 ) , CORGE first utilizes the gold response instead of dialogue context as the query for the retriever to select exemplars that are similar to the gold response .
The retrieved exemplars ensure that exemplar - based generative models utilize their semantics while generating the gold response at the training phase .
Since the exemplars are retrieved by the gold response , some of them are lexically identical or too similar to the gold response .
These exemplars lead exemplar - based generative models to be trained to depend on the exemplar heavily .
Thus , CORGE then eliminates the exemplars based on the distance between the exemplars and the gold response to alleviate the dependency of the generative models on the exemplars .
Here , we employ Jaccard similarity to measure the distance ( Guu et al . , 2018 ; Cai et al . , 2019a ; Wu et al . , 2019 ) .
However , as the selected exemplars solely depend on the gold response , some of them may be irrelevant to the given context , which results in exemplar - based generative models still ignoring the retrieved exemplar .
To solve this , CORGE utilizes the relevance scores between the context and the exemplar to weight the relevant exemplars and penalizes irrelevant exemplars to the given context .
Extensive experiments show that CORGE is generally applicable to the existing exemplar - based generative models and improves the quality of generated responses regarding appropriateness and informativeness .
Our main contributions : ( 1 ) We analyze the shortcomings of existing exemplar - based generative models derived from the nature of the opendomain conversation , the one - to - many problem.(2 ) We introduce a training method ( CORGE ) to improve the quality of generated responses by selecting useful exemplars and weighting the exemplars by relevance scores assessed by the retriever .
( 3 ) Through the human evaluation , we demonstrate that CORGE significantly improves the performance of exemplar - based generative models in terms of appropriateness and informativeness .
2 Related Work 2.1 Exemplar - based Generation While generative models have shown remarkable performance on the open - domain conversation , it is well - known that generative models tend to yield uninformative and bland responses ( Li et
al . , 2016 ; Liu et al . , 2016 ; Serban et al . , 2017 ; Li et
al . , 2020 ; Holtzman et al . , 2019 ; Welleck et al . , 2019 ) .
Exemplar - based generative models are introduced to overcome the aforementioned problem generative models suffer .
Wu et al .
( 2019 ) introduce an exemplar - based generative model for open - domain conversation , which retrieves a context - exemplar pair conditioned by the input context and encodes the lexical difference between the input context and the retrieved context to the edit vector .
The response is produced by feeding the exemplar and the edit vector to the generator .
Weston et
al .
( 2018 ) ;
Roller et al . ( 2021 ) also retrieve the exemplar using the given context as a query and concatenate the exemplar with the context , then feed the concatenated exemplar into the generator to produce the final response for the open - domain conversation .
Cai et al .
( 2019a , b ) propose a method that removes the irrelevant information from the exemplar , then uses the masked exemplar to inform the generator to produce the response .
Gupta et
al .
( 2021 ) condition the generator with the retrieved exemplars and the extracted semantic frames of the exemplars , which improves the coherence of generated responses .
We do not consider this model as a baseline because their model requires an additional semantic frame extractor , and it can be mutually complemented with our proposed training method .
2.2 Knowledge - grounded Generation Knowledge - grounded generation models that utilize retrieved results ( e.g. , relevant documents from Wikipedia ) to generate informative responses have been proposed to perform knowledge - intensive NLP tasks ( e.g. , open - domain question answering ) .
The knowledge - grounded generation has a219
Embedding Space Given context 𝒄 Gold response 𝒓 Exemplars 𝒛 ● Where do you live ?
I live in Dallas .
★ Wow , do you live there ?
I live in California .
( b ) Slightly perturbed gold response 𝒛𝟐 ♠ Wow , do [ MASK ] live there ?
I live in [ MASK ] ( a ) Significantly different response 𝒛𝟏from𝒓 ♥ Dallas is nice to live ! ★ ♠ ♥ ● Generator Over -fitGeneratorIgnore ♠ ○ Figure 2 : Illustration of the drawbacks of existing exemplar - based generative models .
The black dotted line indicates the boundary of the relevant exemplars to the given context .
similar form with the exemplar - based generation .
However , the main difference is that knowledgegrounded generative models extract the knowledge from external resources to generate the informative response .
Guu et al .
( 2020 ) show the effectiveness of pre - training a knowledge retriever with the largescale language model for open - domain question answering , and Lewis et al .
( 2020 ) demonstrate that knowledge - grounded generative models produce more informative and diverse sentences than vanilla generative models on a wide range of knowledgeintensive NLP tasks .
Fan et al .
( 2021 ) similarly propose a knowledge - grounded generative model for response generation , but they do not focus on the open - domain conversation .
In Method Section , we demonstrate the difference between our approach and knowledge - grounded generative models , and we show that existing knowledge - grounded generative models are not directly applicable to the open - domain conversation in Experiments Section .
3 Preliminaries 3.1 Exemplar - based Generation LetD={(ci , ri)|1≤i≤n}denote the dialogue dataset , which consists of npairs of context c and response r. Exemplar - based generative models are composed of two components : a retriever R and a generator G.
For a given context ci , the retriever finds the top - scoring exemplar based on the relevance score SR(z , ci)of the exemplar z∈R , where Ris a pre - defined response set .
The generator computes the probability of the response for the context ciwhile utilizing the exemplar zas PG(r|ci , z ) .
3.2 Drawbacks of Existing Exemplar - based Generative models As mentioned in Roller et al . ( 2021 ) , the primitive exemplar - based generative model ( Weston et al . , 2018 ) tends to ignore the retrieved exemplar dur - ing response generation due to the one - to - many problem in open - domain conversation ( Li et al . , 2016 ) .
Since its retriever searches an exemplar based on a given context , the retrieved exemplar is often significantly different from a gold response of the generator , although both of the retrieved exemplar and gold response are relevant to the given context , which is shown in Figure 2(a ) .
As the retrieved exemplar is not helpful for generating the gold response , the generator is trained to ignore the retrieved exemplar and to produce a response using only the given context .
To induce the generator to utilize retrieved exemplars more actively , Roller et al .
( 2021 ) make use of the gold response , and Cai et al .
( 2019b ) use perturbed gold response as an exemplar rather than using retrieved exemplars during the model training .
However , since the exemplar ziand the gold response riare too similar ( as shown in Figure 2(b ) ) , the exemplar - based generative model learns to rely overly on the exemplar .
Eventually , the generator produces a highly over - fitted response to the exemplar by directly copying the tokens of the exemplar .
4 Method We hypothesize that selecting semantically relevant but lexically distanced exemplars from the gold response could solve the drawbacks above .
To validate this hypothesis , we introduce a training method of exemplar - based generative models , called CORGE .
Our proposed training method is illustrated in Figure 3 , and the illustrative examples about the exemplars selected by CORGE are described in Table 1 .
4.1 Selecting Exemplars Semantically Relevant but Lexically Distanced to the Gold Response We describe how CORGE selects semantically relevant but lexically distanced exemplars to the gold220
response .
Conventionally , the retriever selects the exemplars zbased on the relevance score SR(z , ci ) for the given context ci .
However , this searching process could return a significantly different exemplarzfrom the gold response ri , and it induces the generator Gto ignore the retrieved exemplar during response generation .
Therefore , we select exemplars based on the gold response rito ensure that the generator Gutilizes the exemplars inspired by Wu
et
al ..
We select top- kscoring exemplars based on the score SR′(z , ri ) , which we call kNearest Exemplars ( kNE).1These kNE are more semantically related to the gold response rithan the exemplar obtained by using SR(z , ci ) .
However , some of the selected kNE are lexically identical or too close to the gold response runintentionally since the retriever searches the exemplars based on the gold response .
We observe that using these exemplars also causes the overfitting problem of generated responses ; therefore , the generator excessively copies tokens from the exemplars .
From this , we are motivated to filter out the exemplars which are lexically too close to the gold response and preserve the exemplars properly distanced to the gold response to mitigate the over - fitting problem .
Here , we employ Jaccard similarity to measure the lexical similarity ( Guu et al . , 2018 ; Cai et al . , 2019a ; Wu et al . , 2019 ) between the exemplar and the gold response .
Exemplars are filtered out when their Jaccard distance with the gold response ris larger than 0.6 , and we replace them with the randomly chosen responses from the pre - defined response set R. The threshold of filtering is empirically chosen as 0.6 .
The set of the final exemplars zobtained through these steps is referred to as Zi={zi,1 , zi,2 , · · · , zi , k } .
4.2 Weighting the Selected Exemplars based on the Relevance Score As we select the exemplar totally based on the gold response , some of kNE could be relevant to the gold response ribut irrelevant to the given context ci .
Therefore , we condition the generator with the relevance score of kNE to reward the relevant exemplars and penalize irrelevant exemplars .
Using the retriever R , we calculate the relevance score SR(zi , j , ci)per each selected exemplar zi , j , then apply the softmax function to the relevance score to 1Note that SR(z , c)andSR′(z , ri)use the same retriever , but they are computed differently .
Please refer to how we calculate the score SR′(z , ri)andSR(z , c)in the Supplementary Materials .
♠ ♠ ♠ ♠ ♠ ★ ★ ★ ● Embedding spacekNEBoundary Jaccard Filter Boundary ● Given Context ★ Gold Response ♠ Selected Exemplars(a ) kNE ( b ) Jaccard filter ( c ) Relevance Score ● ● ♠ ♠ ♠ ♠ Figure 3 : The procedure of our proposed training method , CORGE .
( a ): Selecting kNE of the gold response rbased on SR′(z , r ) .
( b ): Filtering out the exemplars which are too close to the gold response r. ( c ): Weighting the exemplars zdepending on their normalized relevance scores PR(z , c ) .
obtain the normalized relevance score PR(zi , j , ci ) .
Then we replace the traditional likelihood with the weighted likelihood using the normalized score .
Our final training objective is to minimize the loss function L=/summationtextn i=1L(ri , ci)where : L(ri , ci ) = −log / summationdisplay z∈ZiPR(z , ci)PG(ri|ci , z ) ( 1 ) The gradient of the generator Gis calculated as follows : ∇GL(ri , ci )
= −α·/summationdisplay z∈ZiPR(z , ci)∇G(PG(ri|ci , z)),(2 ) where α−1=/summationtext z∈ZiPR(z , ci)PG(ri|ci , z ) .
This equation demonstrates that the gradient of the generatorGis scaled by the normalized relevance score PR(z , ci ) , which indicates that the generator is less updated when the retrieved exemplar zis not relevant to the given context ci .
This procedure helps the model ignore the irrelevant exemplars .
Thus , the generator learns to fetch tokens from the exemplar more easily , which is relevant to the gold response .
Difference between CORGE and Knowledgegrounded generative models The way of leveraging the relevance scores is already employed by knowledge - grounded generative models ( Lewis et al . , 2020 ; Sachan et al . , 2021 ) in open - domain question answering .
However , there is a significant difference between our CORGE and knowledgegrounded generative models .
CORGE uses the relevance score PR(z , ci)to penalize the irrelevant exemplars zto the given context cisince the exemplars are retrieved by SR′(z , ri ) .
Knowledgegrounded generative models use it as the latent variable to jointly train the retriever Rand generator
G. Especially , knowledge - grounded generative models also tend to ignore the retrieved exemplars due221
Input Context What kind of animals you take care of ?
Gold Response I work with a variety of animals .
I sometimes work with lions and monkeys .
Context Retrieval Sim PR(z , c ) I raise two dogs .
0.1 0.9 kNE Sim PR(z , c ) I work with a variety of animals .
0.9 0.2 He works with various people .
0.3 0.0 I work with lots of different animals .
0.5 0.3 I do some work with animals they ’re amazing creatures.0.3 0.3 Table 1 : Samples of the exemplars selected by CORGE .
Context Retrieval indicates the exemplar retrieved by using the context as a query , and kNEshows the exemplars selected by using the gold response as a query .
Sim measures the lexical similarity between the gold response and the exemplar and PR(z , c)indicates the normalized relevance score calculated by retriever .
to the one - to - many nature in open - domain conversation when the retriever and generator are jointly trained .
On the other hand , we do not perform the joint learning of the retriever and the generator , but freeze the retriever while training the generator .
5 Experiments 5.1 Dataset We utilize the following four datasets used in Roller et al .
( 2021 ) , which are Blended Skill Talk ( BST ) ( Smith et
al . , 2020 ) , ConvAI2 ( Zhang et al . , 2018 ) , Empathetic Dialogues ( ED ) ( Rashkin et al . , 2019 ) , and Wizard of Wikipedia ( WoW ) ( Dinan et al . , 2018 ) .
To simplify the notation , we denote the concatenated version of these four datasets as BST+ .
We split BST + into train , validation , and test sets following Smith et al .
( 2020 ) .
5.2 Baselines Retrieval and Generative Models Bi - encoder 256 M ( Mazare et
al . , 2018 ) and Blender 90 M ( Roller et al . , 2021 ) are considered as a baseline retrieval model and a baseline generative model .
Further , they are also employed as a retriever and a generator of the following exemplarbased generative baselines , respectively .
Exemplar - based Generative Models Since our proposed training method is for training exemplar - based generation models , we first consider recent exemplar - based generation models , RetNRef
( Weston et al . , 2018 ) , RetNRef α(Roller et al . , 2021 ) , andMatToGen ( Cai et al . , 2019b ) , as baselines .
RetNRef concatenates the retrieved exemplar with the given context as the input of the generator to produce the response .
RetNRef αis the dialogue retrieval version of RetNRef , which adopts α - blending to escape from simply ignoring the retrieved exemplars ( α= 0.5).MatToGen extracts the meaningful tokens from the exemplar to provide them to the generator .
To verify the effectiveness of our training method , we apply CORGE to RetNRef andMatToGen instead of their training method .
They are denoted as RetNRef + CORGE and MatToGen+CORGE , respectively .
Knowledge - grounded Generative Models
Although RAG ( Lewis et al . , 2020 ) and KIF ( Fan et al . , 2021 ) are proposed to perform knowledgegrounded generation tasks , we employ RAG and KIF as baselines since they have a similar form with exemplar - based generative models .
Our experiments demonstrate that these knowledge - grounded generative models can not be directly applied to the open - domain conversation .
5.3 Evaluation Metrics To verify the effectiveness of our training method CORGE , we conduct a pair - wise comparison through the human evaluation following Weston et al .
( 2018 ) .
We use two criteria : Appropriateness andInformativeness .
Appropriateness measures how the generated response is fluent , logical , and appropriate to the given context .
Informativeness measures how the generated response has meaningful information relevant to the given context .
We use Amazon Mechanical Turk to collect the annotations , and more details are described in the Supplementary Material .
We also employ the automatic evaluation metrics , Perplexity ( PPL ) , Dist - n , and BLEU ( Papineni et
al . , 2002 ) , to analyze the generated responses of each model .
PPL measures how well the model predicts a response based on the given input context , and lower PPL indicates that the model predicts the response better .
To analyze how much the exemplar - based generative model leverages the retrieved exemplar , we introduce two variants of PPL by utilizing conditional probability when exemplars are given : ( 1 ) PPL golduses the222
Model Names ( A vs. B)Appropriateness ( % ) Informativeness ( % )
Win Rate A win Tie B win Win Rate A win Tie B win RetNRef αvs .
Bi - encoder 256 M 44.9 32.0 28.7 39.3 47.5 31.3 34.0 34.7 RetNRef αvs .
Blender 90 M 50.2 37.3 25.7 37.0 53.3 40.3 24.3 35.4 RetNRef + CORGE vs. Bi - encoder 256 M 52.6 34.0 35.3 30.7 51.9 35.7 31.3 33.0 RetNRef + CORGE vs. Blender 90 M 57.7∗33.7∗41.7∗24.6∗54.6 30.0 45.0 25.0 RetNRef + CORGE vs. RetNRef α 53.2 30.3 43.0 26.7 51.6 27.7 46.3 26.0 RetNRef + CORGE vs. RetNRef 54.4 41.0 24.7 34.3 53.4 37.0 30.7 32.3 RetNRef + CORGE vs. KIF 57.5∗37.0∗35.7∗27.3∗50.0 30.0 40.0 30.0 RetNRef + CORGE vs. RAG 53.5 37.7 29.7 32.6 52.1 29.7 43.0 27.3 MatToGen vs. Bi - encoder 256 M 47.1 33.3 29.3 37.4 50.9 36.7 28.0 35.3 MatToGen vs. Blender 90 M 48.1 34.0 29.3 36.7 46.3 31.6 31.7 36.7 MatToGen + CORGE vs. Bi - encoder 256 M 54.2 43.0 20.7 36.3 54.4 41.3 24.0 34.7 MatToGen + CORGE vs. Blender 90 M 58.0∗35.0∗39.7∗25.3∗58.1∗36.0∗38.0∗26.0∗ MatToGen + CORGE vs. MatToGen 52.6 33.3 36.7 30.0 53.3 32.7 38.7 28.6 MatToGen + CORGE vs. KIF 57.1∗44.0∗23.0∗33.0∗52.5 39.0 25.7 35.3 MatToGen + CORGE vs. RAG 51.6 38.3 25.7 36.0 55.6 41.3 25.7 33.0 Table 2 : Pair - wise human evaluation results show that our proposed training method improves the performance against the existing exemplar - based generation approaches in terms of appropriateness and informativeness .
The win rate is calculated by excluding the tie.∗indicates statistical significance ( two - tailed binomial test , p < 0.05 ) .
conditional probability PG(r|c , r ) , which assumes the situation when the gold response is given as an exemplar , and ( 2 ) PPL retuses the conditional probability PG(r|c , z)where zis the retrieved exemplar by using SR′(z , r ) .
Lower PPL golddenotes that the exemplar - based generative model predicts the gold response well when the gold response is given as an exemplar .
Lower PPL retindicates that the exemplar - based generative model well leverages the provided exemplar to predict the gold response .
Dist - n(Li et
al . , 2016 ) is the ratio of distinct ngrams to a total number of n - grams for all the generated responses , which measures the degree of the diversity of the generated responses .
BLEU ( z , r)is adopted to measure the degree of the token overlap between the provided exemplar and the generated response pair ( z , r ) .
A higher BLEU ( z , r)score indicates that the generator copies more from the provided exemplar while generating the response .
5.4 Implementation Details We provide the details of our implementation in the Supplementary Material .
We will the source codes of CORGE for the reproducibility of the conducted experiments .
6 Experimental Results 6.1 Pair - wise Comparison Results Table 2 shows the pair - wise comparison results through the human evaluation .
When RetNRef and MatToGen adopt our proposed CORGE as theirtraining method , they outperform all baselines except for a case of RetNRef + CORGE vs. KIFon the informativeness .
In detail , RetNRef + CORGE and MatToGen + CORGE show better performance than RetNRef αandMatToGen , respectively , in both metrics .
Especially , MatToGen + CORGE outperforms Bi - encoder 256 M and exceeds Blender 90 M , while MatToGen performs worse than Bi - encoder 256 M andBlender 90 M .
Furthermore , CORGE enlarges the win rate of RetNRef αforBlender 90 M .
These evaluation results demonstrate that CORGE leads the existing exemplar - based generative models to produce more fluent and informative responses .
6.2 Investigating the Exemplar - based Generative Models with Automatic Metrics Through the automatic evaluation , we verify that existing exemplar - based generative models ignore the provided exemplar or generate responses overfitted to the provided exemplar .
As shown in Table 3 , RetNRef
+
CORGE andMatToGen
+ CORGE show lower PPL retthan Blender 90 M , which means that the exemplar - based generative models trained with CORGE make a better prediction of the gold response than Blender 90 M by utilizing the provided exemplar .
RetNRef + CORGE has a smaller degree of PPL goldand PPL retthan those of RetNRef , which infers RetNRef + CORGE leverages the provided exemplar better than RetNRef .RetNRef
αhas lower PPL gold than RetNRef + CORGE , however , RetNRef αhas higher223
Models PPL gold PPL ret Dist-2 Dist-3 BLEU ( z , r)-2 BLEU ( z , r)-3 Blender 90 M 13.79 13.79 0.236 0.372 - Bi - encoder 256 M - - 0.681 0.881 - RetNRef 8.518 13.37 0.256 0.386 0.030 0.009 RetNRef α 3.061 16.99 0.530 0.778 0.319 0.201 RetNRef + CORGE 4.863 11.53 0.349 0.520 0.102 0.048 MatToGen 5.291 17.71 0.362 0.567 0.169 0.095 MatToGen + CORGE 5.651 13.45 0.313 0.474 0.069 0.028 RAG 11.84 14.91 0.257 0.390 0.015 0.003 KIF 12.11 15.18 0.238
0.363 0.002 0.000 Table 3 : Automatic evaluation results .
Since Blender 90 M can not utilize the exemplar , we report PPL calculated from PG(r|c)in the place of PPL goldand PPL ret .
PPL retthan RetNRef + CORGE .
This result demonstrates that RetNRef αdoes not make good use of the retrieved exemplar except when the gold response is given as the retrieved exemplar .
From this observation , we claim that RetNRef αgenerates a response highly over - fitted to the selected exemplar , which is caused by utilizing the gold response as an exemplar in the training phase .
The same goes for MatToGen , where applying CORGE mitigates the over - fitting issue .
Higher Dist- nofRetNRef + CORGE andMatToGen + CORGE compared to Blender 90 M shows that our exemplar - based generative models produce more diverse responses than the vanilla generative model .
Moreover , RetNRef + CORGE has higher Dist - nthan RetNRef , which shows that utilizing the exemplars helps the generator diversify the responses .
Although RetNRef αis the only one that achieves comparable Dist- nto that of the vanilla retrieval model , Bi - encoder 256 M , it is derived from an over - fitting to the exemplar considering the gap between PPL goldand PPL ret , resulting in the degradation of appropriateness and informativeness in human evaluation .
Average BLEU ( z , r)scores implicitly measure the overlap between the retrieved exemplar and the generated response ; thus , a higher degree of BLEU ( z , r)indicates that the generator depends more on the retrieved exemplar .
RetNRef shows a negligible BLEU ( z , r)score , which reaffirms that the model is almost not utilizing the retrieved exemplar .
RetNRef αand MatToGen have higher BLEU ( z , r)scores compared to RetNRef + CORGE andMatToGen
+ CORGE , respectively , which verifies that the former depends more on the retrieved exemplar than the latter.0 50 100 150 2000.10.20.3 Train stepsStd .
of Relevance ScoresOurs
Ours + joint RAG Figure 4 : The standard deviation of the normalized retriever score gets smaller when we jointly train the retriever for exemplar - based generative models .
Ours stands for RetNRef + CORGE , and joint indicates jointly training the retriever with the generator .
6.3 Incapability of Knowledge - grounded Generative Models in Open - domain Conversation The automatic evaluation results in Table 3 confirm that knowledge - grounded generative models are ignoring the exemplar .
PPL gold , PPL ret , and Dist- n ofRAG andKIF have a similar degree to those of Blender 90 M , which implies that the exemplars are not providing useful information while generating the response .
The average BLEU ( z , r)score also has a poor degree , indicating almost no overlap between the retrieved exemplars and the generated responses .
We explain that these results are originated from the difference between the open - domain conversation and knowledge - grounded generation tasks .
While training knowledge - grounded generative models , they use PR(z , c)to fetch the external knowledge .
However , the generator also ignores the retrieved exemplar due to the one - to - many nature of the open - domain conversation .
In addition , we observe that jointly training the retriever with the generator causes the retriever stuck in the local minima .
As shown in Figure 4 , the standard deviation of normalized relevance scores PR(z , c)computed by the retriever224
Input ContextA : No way i do it a lot , at least when i am feeling well enough .
B : Awesome .
That ’s the only thing i ’ll never do .
I do like the outdoors though .
A : I ’m a thrill seaker .
Do you like extreme sports ?
Bi - encoder 256 M
I love extreme sports .
Its the only real way I can get the adrenaline boost I need .
Blender 90 M No , I don ’ t think I ’ ve ever done that .
I ’
d love to though .
Exemplar I love extreme sports .
Its the only real way I can get the adrenaline boost I need .
RetNRef I don ’ t really have a lot of time for sports .
I spend most of my free time working .
Exemplar I love extreme sports .
Its the only real way I can get the adrenaline boost I need .
RetNRef α I love extreme sports I need the adrenaline boost .
Its the only way I can get the real adrenaline .
Exemplar I love extreme sports .
Its the only real way I can get the adrenaline boost I need .
RetNRef + CORGE I love extreme sports as well .
It ’ s a great way to get out and enjoy life .
Exemplar nicde .
KIF I don ’ t really have a lot of time for sports .
I spend most of my time working .
Exemplar Do you like sports ?
RAG I don ’ t really have a lot of time for sports .
I spend most of my time working .
Table 4 : Examples for model responses and provided exemplars corresponding to given input contexts .
Models PPL gold PPL ret Dist-2 Dist-3 BLEU ( z , r)-2 BLEU ( z , r)-3 RetNRef + CORGE 4.863 11.53 0.349 0.520 0.102 0.048 RetNRef + CORGE −RS 6.482 11.75 0.316 0.478 0.074 0.031 RetNRef + CORGE −kNE
8.657 13.82 0.250 0.380 0.034 0.010 RetNRef + CORGE −JF 1.698 32.91 0.537 0.785 0.332 0.207 Table 5 : Results of the ablation study .
−RS,−kNE , and −JF denote that relevance score ( RS ) , kNE , and Jaccard filter ( JF ) are removed from CORGE , respectively .
almost gets near zero when the retriever of RAG is jointly trained .
A smaller standard deviation means the relevance scores are getting flattened .
Although knowledge - grounded generative models empirically have shown that jointly training the retriever and generator improves the performance in knowledge - intensive NLP tasks ( Lewis et al . , 2020 ) , in open - domain conversation , the retrieved exemplars are ignored .
Thus , the retriever learns to produce an uninformative relevance score .
As a result , the retriever collapses , which means the retriever may return inappropriate exemplars to the generator ( also shown in the example of KIF and RAG in Table 4 ) .
Intriguingly , jointly training the retriever with CORGE also causes the retriever scores to be flattened , as shown in Figure 4 , and we empirically observe the minor collapse of the retriever as we experienced in RAG as well .
Thus , CORGE does not jointly train the retriever .
6.4 Ablation Study To verify the effectiveness of each component in CORGE , we conduct the ablation study .
In Table 5 , PPL retfrom RetNRef + CORGE is lower than any other ablation counterparts , which confirms each component contributes to predicting the responses .
RetNRef + CORGE −RS and RetNRef + CORGE −kNE have a higher degree ofPPL retand PPL gold , which indicates RSandkNE help the generator to utilize the exemplar while generating the response .
RetNRef + CORGE −JF provides a strong signal of over - fitting , where it has extremely low PPL goldbut exceptionally high PPLret .
Dist- nshows our model produces the most diverse responses among the models except RetNRef + CORGE −JF , where RetNRef + CORGE −JF excessively copies the tokens from the retrieved exemplar .
The average BLEU ( z , r)scores also show the same trend , where reaffirms the effect of the components of CORGE .
7 Conclusion In this paper , we introduce a generally applicable training method for exemplar - based generative models to alleviate their disadvantages derived from the one - to - many problem .
Our training method selects exemplars that are semantically relevant but lexically distanced from the gold response and weights those exemplars with the relevance score measured by the retriever .
Through the extensive analysis , including pair - wise human evaluation , we verify that our method improves the performance of existing exemplar - based generative models in terms of appropriateness and informativeness.225
References Daniel Adiwardana , Minh - Thang Luong , David R
So , Jamie Hall , Noah Fiedel , Romal Thoppilan , Zi Yang , Apoorv Kulshreshtha , Gaurav Nemade , Yifeng Lu , et al . 2020 .
Towards a human - like open - domain chatbot .
arXiv preprint arXiv:2001.09977 .
Tom Brown , Benjamin Mann , Nick Ryder , Melanie Subbiah , Jared D Kaplan , Prafulla Dhariwal , Arvind Neelakantan , Pranav Shyam , Girish Sastry , Amanda Askell , Sandhini Agarwal , Ariel Herbert - V oss , Gretchen Krueger , Tom Henighan , Rewon Child , Aditya Ramesh , Daniel Ziegler , Jeffrey Wu , Clemens Winter , Chris Hesse , Mark Chen , Eric Sigler , Mateusz Litwin , Scott Gray , Benjamin Chess , Jack Clark , Christopher Berner , Sam McCandlish , Alec Radford , Ilya Sutskever , and Dario Amodei .
2020 .
Language models are few - shot learners .
In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , volume 33 , pages 1877–1901 .
Curran Associates , Inc.
Deng Cai , Yan Wang , Wei Bi , Zhaopeng Tu , Xiaojiang Liu , Wai Lam , and Shuming Shi . 2019a .
Skeletonto - response : Dialogue generation guided by retrieval memory .
In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics : Human Language Technologies , Volume 1 ( Long and Short Papers ) , pages 1219–1228 .
Deng Cai , Yan Wang , Wei Bi , Zhaopeng Tu , Xiaojiang Liu , and Shuming Shi . 2019b .
Retrievalguided dialogue response generation via a matchingto - generation framework .
In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing and the 9th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing ( EMNLP - IJCNLP ) , pages 1866–1875 .
Emily Dinan , Stephen Roller , Kurt Shuster , Angela Fan , Michael Auli , and Jason Weston .
2018 .
Wizard of wikipedia : Knowledge - powered conversational agents .
In International Conference on Learning Representations .
Angela Fan , Claire Gardent , Chloé Braud , and Antoine Bordes .
2021 .
Augmenting transformers with knnbased composite memory for dialog .
Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics , 9:82 – 99 .
Alex Graves . 2012 .
Sequence transduction with recurrent neural networks .
arXiv preprint arXiv:1211.3711 .
Prakhar Gupta , Jeffrey P Bigham , Yulia Tsvetkov , and Amy Pavel . 2021 .
Controlling dialogue generation with semantic exemplars .
In Proceedings of the 2021 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics : Human Language Technologies , pages 3018–3029 .
Kelvin Guu , Tatsunori B Hashimoto , Yonatan Oren , and Percy Liang .
2018 .
Generating sentences byediting prototypes .
Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics , 6:437–450 .
Kelvin Guu , Kenton Lee , Zora Tung , Panupong Pasupat , and Ming - Wei Chang .
2020 .
Realm : Retrievalaugmented language model pre - training .
arXiv preprint arXiv:2002.08909 .
Ari Holtzman , Jan Buys , Li Du , Maxwell Forbes , and Yejin Choi .
2019 .
The curious case of neural text degeneration .
In International Conference on Learning Representations .
Samuel Humeau , Kurt Shuster , Marie - Anne Lachaux , and Jason Weston .
2019 .
Poly - encoders : Architectures and pre - training strategies for fast and accurate multi - sentence scoring .
In International Conference on Learning Representations .
Beomsu Kim , Seokjun Seo , Seungju Han , Enkhbayar Erdenee , and Buru Chang .
2021 .
Distilling the knowledge of large - scale generative models into retrieval models for efficient open - domain conversation .
In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics : EMNLP 2021 , pages 3357–3373 .
Patrick Lewis , Ethan Perez , Aleksandra Piktus , Fabio Petroni , Vladimir Karpukhin , Naman Goyal , Heinrich Küttler , Mike Lewis , Wen - tau
Yih , Tim Rocktäschel , Sebastian Riedel , and Douwe Kiela . 2020 .
Retrieval - augmented generation for knowledgeintensive nlp tasks .
In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , volume 33 , pages 9459 – 9474 .
Curran Associates , Inc.
Jiwei Li , Michel Galley , Chris Brockett , Jianfeng Gao , and William B Dolan . 2016 .
A diversity - promoting objective function for neural conversation models .
InProceedings of the 2016 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics : Human Language Technologies , pages 110–119 .
Margaret Li , Stephen Roller , Ilia Kulikov , Sean Welleck , Y - Lan Boureau , Kyunghyun Cho , and Jason Weston .
2020 .
Do n’t say that !
making inconsistent dialogue unlikely with unlikelihood training .
In Proceedings of the 58th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics , pages 4715–4728 .
Raymond Li , Samira Kahou , Hannes Schulz , Vincent Michalski , Laurent Charlin , and Chris Pal . 2018 .
Towards deep conversational recommendations .
arXiv preprint arXiv:1812.07617 .
Chia - Wei Liu , Ryan Lowe , Iulian Vlad Serban , Mike Noseworthy , Laurent Charlin , and Joelle Pineau .
2016 .
How not to evaluate your dialogue system : An empirical study of unsupervised evaluation metrics for dialogue response generation .
In Proceedings of the 2016 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing , pages 2122–2132 .
Edward Loper and Steven Bird .
2002 .
Nltk : The natural language toolkit .
In In Proceedings of the ACL Workshop on Effective Tools and Methodologies for226
Teaching Natural Language Processing and Computational Linguistics .
Philadelphia : Association for Computational Linguistics .
Pierre - Emmanuel Mazare , Samuel Humeau , Martin Raison , and Antoine Bordes .
2018 .
Training millions of personalized dialogue agents .
In Proceedings of the 2018 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing , pages 2775–2779 .
A. H. Miller , W. Feng , A. Fisch , J. Lu , D. Batra , A. Bordes , D. Parikh , and J. Weston .
2017 .
Parlai : A dialog research software platform .
arXiv preprint arXiv:1705.06476 .
Kishore Papineni , Salim Roukos , Todd Ward , and WeiJing Zhu . 2002 .
Bleu : a method for automatic evaluation of machine translation .
In Proceedings of the 40th annual meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics , pages 311–318 .
Hannah Rashkin , Eric Michael Smith , Margaret Li , and Y - Lan Boureau .
2019 .
Towards empathetic opendomain conversation models : A new benchmark and dataset .
In Proceedings of the 57th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics , pages 5370–5381 .
Stephen Roller , Emily Dinan , Naman Goyal , Da Ju , Mary Williamson , Yinhan Liu , Jing Xu , Myle Ott , Eric Michael Smith , Y - Lan Boureau , et al . 2021 .
Recipes for building an open - domain chatbot .
In Proceedings of the 16th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics : Main Volume , pages 300–325 .
Devendra Singh Sachan , Mostofa Patwary , Mohammad Shoeybi , Neel Kant , Wei Ping , William L Hamilton , and Bryan Catanzaro .
2021 .
End - to - end training of neural retrievers for open - domain question answering .
arXiv preprint arXiv:2101.00408 .
Iulian Serban , Tim Klinger , Gerald Tesauro , Kartik Talamadupula , Bowen Zhou , Yoshua Bengio , and Aaron Courville .
2017 .
Multiresolution recurrent neural networks : An application to dialogue response generation .
In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence , volume 31 .
Eric Michael Smith , Mary Williamson , Kurt Shuster , Jason Weston , and Y - Lan Boureau .
2020 .
Can you put it all together : Evaluating conversational agents ’ ability to blend skills .
In Proceedings of the 58th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics , pages 2021–2030 .
Sean Welleck , Ilia Kulikov , Stephen Roller , Emily Dinan , Kyunghyun Cho , and Jason Weston .
2019 .
Neural text generation with unlikelihood training .
In International Conference on Learning Representations .
Jason Weston , Emily Dinan , and Alexander Miller .
2018 .
Retrieve and refine : Improved sequence generation models for dialogue .
In Proceedings of the 2018 EMNLP Workshop SCAI : The 2nd InternationalWorkshop on Search - Oriented Conversational AI , pages 87–92 .
Yu Wu , Furu Wei , Shaohan Huang , Yunli Wang , Zhoujun Li , and Ming Zhou .
2019 .
Response generation by context - aware prototype editing .
In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence , volume 33 , pages 7281–7288 .
Saizheng Zhang , Emily Dinan , Jack Urbanek , Arthur Szlam , Douwe Kiela , and Jason Weston .
2018 .
Personalizing dialogue agents : I have a dog , do you have pets too ?
In Proceedings of the 56th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics ( Volume 1 : Long Papers ) , pages 2204–2213 .
Yizhe Zhang , Siqi Sun , Michel Galley , Yen - Chun Chen , Chris Brockett , Xiang Gao , Jianfeng Gao , Jingjing Liu , and William B Dolan .
2020 .
Dialogpt : Largescale generative pre - training for conversational response generation .
In Proceedings of the 58th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics : System Demonstrations , pages 270–278.227
A Implementation Details A.1 How the Retriever Calculates the Scores Our retriever follows the architecture of Biencoder ( Mazare et al . , 2018 ) , and the score SR(z , c)andSR′(z , r)are calculated as follows : SR(z , c ) = d(z)·q(c ) , SR′(z , r ) = d(z)·d(r ) , d(z ) = BERT r(z ) , d(r ) = BERT r(r ) , q(c ) = BERT c(c),(3 ) where d(z)andd(r)are encoded vectors produced by response encoder BERT randq(c)is an encoded vector produced by context encoder BERT c.
The notation R′indicates that it only uses the response encoder instead of using the context encoder together .
CORGE is not limited to use Bi - encoder as a retriever and can be applied to other types of a retriever ( e.g. Poly - encoder ( Humeau et al . , 2019 ) ) .
A.2 Model Details As we mentioned in Section 5.2 , we employ Biencoder 256 M and Blender 90 M as a retriever and a generator of each exemplar - based generative model , respectively .
For MatToGen , additional MLP layers are added to the retriever , as follows the details in Cai et al .
( 2019b )
.
When training the models , weights of the retriever and the generator are initialized with the pre - trained Bi - encoder 256 M and Blender 90 M , respectively , For Blender 90 M , we use the model released by ParlAI ( Miller et al . , 2017 ) , which is fine - tuned on the BST + dataset .
For Bi - encoder 256 M , we fine - tune the model released by ParlAI on the BST + dataset , and we follow the hyperparameter settings of Humeau et al .
( 2019 ) , which are implemented in the ParlAI library .
The pre - defined response set is constructed from the BST + training set , which contains about 400 K responses .
We use NVIDIA DGX Station A100 for training the models .
A.3 Hyperparameters When training exemplar - based generative models with CORGE , five ( k=5 ) exemplars are utilized for each training instance .
The exemplar - based generators are trained with a batch size of 32 and an initial learning rate of 7e-6 , and the learning rate is decayed in half when the training loss meetsthe plateau .
The model is trained until there is no progress in the validation PPL .
A.4 Generation Strategy When we generate samples using generative model , exemplar - based generative models , and knowledgegrounded generative models , we adopt a beam decoding strategy which is widely used in generative models ( Graves , 2012 ) .
Following ( Roller et al . , 2021 ) , we choose a minimum beam length and a beam size as 20 BPE tokens and 10 , respectively , and use tri - gram beam blocking on context and response blocks .
During the inference phase , both exemplar - based generative models and knowledgegrounded generative models use the top-1 scoring candidate as an exemplar chosen from utilizing the relevance score SR(z , c ) .
B Evaluation Details
We prepare dialogue cases that have three - turn input contexts and the gold response from the BST and evaluate them by human pair - wise comparison and automatic evaluation .
There are 980 test cases , and we randomly choose 100 test cases for the human evaluation .
B.1 Pair - wise Human Evaluation As we described in Section 5.3 , we use Amazon Mechanical Turk to collect the annotations .
Each test case is rated by three annotators to improve the robustness of the evaluation result .
We set a maximum number of annotations per worker in order to reduce the potential bias .
To control the quality of the annotations , we only allowed annotators who satisfy the following requirements to evaluate our results : ( 1 ) HITs approval rate greater than 95 % , ( 2 ) Location is one of Australia , Canada , New Zealand , United Kingdom , and the United States , ( 3 ) Lifetime number of HITs approved greater than 1000 , following Li
et al .
( 2018 ) .
Figure 5 shows the instructions and the interface for the human evaluation .
To mitigate the bias from the annotator , we randomly shuffle the order of the model and the corresponding response .
B.2 Automatic Evaluation For automatic metrics , we calculate the metric for each case and take the average of those values .
When calculating BLEU , we use sentence_bleu function in nltk python package ( Loper and Bird , 2002).228
Figure 5 : The interface of pairwise human evaluation for appropriateness and informativeness .
C Measuring Inference Time We measure how much time spend when the model generates the responses .
When generating the response , Blender 90 M takes 0.481seconds , and RetNRef + CORGE takes 0.523seconds per instance .
There is only an 8.7%amount of inference time gap between Blender 90 M andRetNRef + CORGE .
This tells us that exemplar - based generation can significantly improve the quality of responses regarding appropriateness , informativeness , and diversity without increasing the amount of time to generate answers .
We test our model on NVIDIA DGX Station A100 with PyTorch 1.7.1 , CUDA 11.0 , CuDNN 8.0 , and here we adopt the generation strategy we describe above .
When we measure the inference time , we only use a single GPU ( NVIDIA A100 GPU , 40 GB Memory ) , and the inference time is measured as the average inference time of 100 response generations .
D Additional Results We provide additional samples for the retrieved exemplar and the model response from the baselines and our models in Table 6.229
Input ContextA : I crash around 230 to 300 .
I do n’t have much of a social life .
B : Neither do I , you are not alone A : I am alone but I ’m not lonely .
I have a dog who ’s great company .
Bi - encoder 256 M
Any friends ?
My dog is one of mine .
Blender 90 M That ’s good to hear , I ’ ve a dog too , he ’ s my best friend .
Exemplar Any friends ?
My dog is one of mine .
RetNRef I am sorry to hear that .
Do you have any hobbies that you like to do ?
RetNRef
α
My dog is one of my friends ?
Is yours one of any of his friends ?
lol .
RetNRef +
CORGE What kind of dog is it ?
I ’ ve got a chihuahua and she ’ s my best friend .
Exemplar I love dogs too .
My best friend is my dog .
MatToGen
I love my best friend , he ’ s the best dog I ’ve ever had .
What is your best friend ?
MatToGen +
CORGE I love dogs too , my best friend is my dog .
Do you have any hobbies ?
Exemplar nicde .
KIF I am sorry to hear that .
Do you have any hobbies that you like to do ?
Exemplar I ’m usually alone because I do n’t like my family .
RAG I am sorry to hear that .
Do you have any hobbies that you like to do ?
Input ContextA : Sounds like a horror movie , my favorite kind B :
Haha , yeah he melts my heart .
A : Did you do anything fun for Halloween ?
Bi - encoder 256 M I enjoy Halloween , it ’s fun to dress up .
Do you like it ?
Blender 90 M I went to a halloween party with my friends .
It was a lot of fun .
What about you ?
Exemplar I enjoy Halloween , it ’s fun to dress up .
Do you like it ?
RetNRef
No , I don ’ t think I could do it .
I ’ m not a big fan of halloween .
RetNRef
α I like it , it ’ s fun to dress up .
Do you like halloween ?
I enjoy dressing up .
RetNRef +
CORGE I like to dress up as a clown , but I don ’ t think I ’ ll be doing that this year .
Exemplar
No we went to a haunted house
and I got chased often .
MatToGen
No we never got to go to the haunted house we went to once and got chased by a ghost .
MatToGen +
CORGE
No , I don ’ t like to go to haunted houses .
I ’ m scared of them .
Exemplar nicde .
KIF
Yes , I went to a haunted house and watched all the horror movies .
It was so scary !
Exemplar Are you doing anything cool for halloween
RAG
No , I don ’ t think I ’ m going to .
I ’ ve never been a fan of halloween .
Input ContextA :
Oh God no !
I ca n’t stay tied down to one woman .
Why would you want to do that ?
B : I know right ?
Most people consider marriage to be involving 2 people but in certain parts of the world that varies between cultures and religions , so it does n’t seem so bad
A : Marriage is very good .
Bi - encoder 256 M I agree , but in some cultures , marriage is recommended and unmarried folks are frowned upon !
Blender 90 M I agree !
I ’ m not sure if i could do it though .
I don ’ t think I could .
Exemplar I agree , but in some cultures , marriage is recommended and unmarried folks are frowned upon !
RetNRef I agree .
I think it ’ s important for people to have a healthy relationship with each other .
RetNRef α I agree , but some folks are recommended to marry in some cultures , and some are frown upon !
RetNRef + CORGE I agree !
In some cultures marriage is recommended , but in some countries it ’ s not recommended .
Exemplar I agree .
I think it ’ s important for people to have a healthy relationship with each other .
MatToGen
I agree , some cultures are more strict than others , but i agree that some religions are more lenient .
MatToGen + CORGE I agree !
In some cultures marriage is recommended by some religions , but I don ’ t believe in it !
Exemplar nicde .
KIF I agree !
I think it ’ s important to remember that marriage is a legal , social , and financial union .
Exemplar That is good and great RAG I agree !
I think it ’ s important for people to have a healthy relationship with each other .
Table 6 : Additional examples for model responses and provided exemplars corresponding to given input contexts.230
