Proceedings of the 2019 EMNLP Workshop W - NUT : The 5th Workshop on Noisy User - generated Text , pages 121–125 Hong Kong , Nov 4 , 2019 .
c  2019 Association for Computational Linguistics121Who wrote this book ?
A challenge for e - commerce B´eranger Dumont , Simona Maggio , Ghiles Sidi Said & Quoc - Tien Au Rakuten Institute of Technology Paris fberanger.dumont , simona.maggio g@rakuten.com , fts - ghiles.sidisaid , quoctien.au g@rakuten.com
Abstract Modern e - commerce catalogs contain millions of references , associated with textual and visual information that is of paramount importance for the products to be found via search or browsing .
Of particular signiﬁcance is the book category , where the author name(s ) ﬁeld poses a signiﬁcant challenge .
Indeed , books written by a given author might be listed with different authors ’ names due to abbreviations , spelling variants and mistakes , among others .
To solve this problem at scale , we design a composite system involving open data sources for books , as well as deep learning components , such as approximate match with Siamese networks and name correction with sequence - tosequence networks .
We evaluate this approach on product data from the e - commerce website Rakuten France , and ﬁnd that the top proposal of the system is the normalized author name with 72 % accuracy .
1 Introduction Unlike brick - and - mortar stores , e - commerce websites can list hundreds of millions of products , with thousands of new products entering their catalogs every day .
The availability and the reliability of the information on the products , or product data , is crucial for the products to be found by the users via textual or visual search , or using faceted navigation .
Books constitute a prominent part of many large ecommerce catalogs .
Relevant book properties include : title , author(s ) , format , edition , and publication date , among others .
In this work , we focus on the names of book authors , as they are found to be extremely relevant to the user and are commonly used in search queries on e - commerce websites , but suffer from considerable variability and noise .
To the best of our knowledge , there is no large - scale public dataset for books that captures the variability arising on e - commerce marketplaces from user - generated input .
Thus , in this work we use product data from Rakuten France ( RFR).1 1https://fr.shopping.rakuten.comThe variability and noise is evident in the RFR dataset .
For example , books written by F. Scott Fitzgerald are also listed with the following author ’s names : “ Francis Scott Fitzgerald ” ( full name ) , “ Fitzgerald , F. Scott ” ( inversion of the ﬁrst and last name ) , “ Fitzgerald ” ( last name only ) , “ F. Scott Fitgerald ” ( misspelling of the last name ) , “ F SCOTT FITZGERALD ” ( capitalization and different typological conventions ) , as well as several combinations of those variations .
The variability of the possible spellings for an author ’s name is very hard to capture using rules , even more so for names which are not primarily written in latin alphabet ( such as arabic or asian names ) , for names containing titles ( such as “ Dr. ” or “ Pr . ” ) , and for pen names which may not follow the usual conventions .
This motivated us to explore automated techniques for normalizing the authors ’ names to their best known ( “ canonical ” ) spellings .
Fortunately , a wealth of open databases exist for books , making it possible to match a signiﬁcant fraction of the books listed in e - commerce catalogs .
While not always clean and unambiguous , this information is extremely valuable and enables us to build datasets of name variants , used to train machine learning systems to normalize authors ’ names .
To this end , in addition to the match with open databases , we will explore two different approaches : approximate match with known authors ’ names using Siamese neural networks , and direct correction of the provided author ’s name using sequenceto - sequence learning with neural networks .
Then , an additional machine learning component is used to rank the results .
The rest of the paper is organized as follows : we present the data from RFR and from the open databases in Section 2 , before turning to the experimental setup for the overall system and for each of its components in Section 3 .
Finally , we give results in Section 4 , we present related works in Section 5 , and conclude in Section 6 .
2 Book data 2.1 Rakuten France data The RFR dataset contains 12 million book references2 .
The most relevant product data for normalization is : 2The RFR dataset is publicly available at https://rit .
rakuten.co.jp/data_release .
122 F. S. Fitzgerald   Match with open bibliographic sourcesSiamese   approx .
name matchingSeq2seq name correctiona   l   d F   r   aFitzgerald , F. Scott F. Scott Fitzgerald Frank S. FitzgeraldF. Scott Fitzgerald RankingISBNNAMEFigure 1 : Overview of the system for normalizing author names .
Each component is detailed in Section 3 .
Table 1 : Performances of the external bibliographic resources used for matching books on RFR via ISBN .
Source URL % of ISBNs Open Library openlibrary.org 24.9 % ISBNdb isbndb.com 36.3 % Goodreads www.goodreads.com
64.7 % Google Books books.google.com 51.2 % OCLC www.oclc.org 52.2 % BnF www.bnf.fr 7.4 % Sudoc www.sudoc.abes.fr 29.0 % Babelio www.babelio.com
7.9 % ISBN3 in 10 digit or 13 digit format ; product title , which includes the book title , often supplemented with extra information in free text ; author(s ) of the book as the input catalog name provided by the seller .
In particular , the ISBN is a worldwide unique identiﬁer for books , which makes it a prime candidate for unambiguous matching with external sources .
In this dataset , an ISBN is present for about 70 % of the books .
Among the books with no ISBN , 30 % are ancient books which are not expected to be associated an ISBN .
2.2 External bibliographic resources There is no central authority providing consistent information on books associated with an ISBN .
However , there is a wealth of bibliographic resources and open databases for books .
In order to retrieve the author ’s name(s ) associated with the books in the RFR dataset , we perform ISBN matching using public APIs on eight of them , listed in Table 1 along with the fraction of found ISBNs from this dataset .
We ﬁnd the sources to be highly complementary and that 75 % of the books with an ISBN are matched with at least one source .
The match via ISBN on external bibliographic resources is the ﬁrst component of the system depicted in Fig .
1 . 2.3 Dataset of name entities
In order to train and evaluate machine learning systems to match or correct authors ’ names , a dataset of name en3International Standard Book Number , see https:// www.isbn-international.orgtities containing the different surface forms ( or variants ) of authors ’ names is required .
The entities should reﬂect as well as possible the variability that can be found in the RFR dataset , as was illustrated in the case of F. Scott Fitzgerald in Section 1 .
For each entity , a canonical name should be elected and correspond to the name that should be preferred for the purpose of e - commerce .
Instead of setting these gold spellings by following some predeﬁned rules ( i.e. family name in the ﬁrst position , initial of ﬁrst name , etc . ) , for e - commerce applications it is more appropriate that the displayed authors names have the most popular spellings among readers .
In agreement with Rakuten catalog analysts we set the most popular spelling of an author name as the one found on Wikipedia4or DBpedia ( Lehmann et al . , 2015 ) .
While Wikipedia seems more pertinent to select canonical names matching the e - commerce user expectations , specialized librarian data services , such as the Library of Congress Name Authority5 , could be used in future research to enrich the dataset of name entities .
Name entities are collected in three distinct ways : 1.ISBN matching : for each book the different author names found via ISBN search on external sources and the RFR author name ﬁeld build up an entity .
The canonical form is the one that is matched with Wikipedia or DBpedia ; else the one provided by the greatest number of sources .
2.Matching of Rakuten authors : we build entities using fuzzy search on the author name ﬁeld on DBpedia and consider the DBpedia value to be canonical .
We limit the number of false positives in fuzzy search by tokenizing both names , and keeping only the names where at least one token from the name on RFR is approximately found in the external resource ( Levenshtein distance < 2 ) .
3.Name variants : DBpedia , BnF , and JRCnames ( Steinberger et al . , 2011 ; Maud et
al . , 2016 ) directly provide data about people ( not limited to book authors ) and their name variants .
4https://www.wikipedia.org 5id.loc.gov/authorities/names.html
123As an example , by using the wikiPageRedirects ﬁeld in DBpedia we can build a large entity for the canonical name “ Anton Tchekhov ” , containing “ Anton Tchechov ” , “ Ant ` on P`avlovi ˇc Ch´echov ” , “ Checkhov ” , “ Anton Chekov ” , and many more .
After creating the name entity dataset , we normalize all names to latin-1 .
We obtain about 750,000 entities , for a total of 2.1 million names .
2.4 Annotated Rakuten France data In order to evaluate the overall system , we need product data from RFR for which the canonical author name has been carefully annotated and can be considered as the ground truth .
To this end , we have considered a subset of 1000 books from the RFR dataset , discarding books written by more than one author for simplicity.6We ﬁnd that 467 books have a canonical author name that differs from RFR ’s original ( unnormalized ) author name .
Also , 310 do not have an ISBN or do not match on any of the bibliographic resources listed in Section 2.2 .
Among them , 208 books have a canonical name that differs from the input catalog name provided by the seller .
3 Experimental setup The overview of the system can be found in Fig .
1 .
Its ﬁrst component , the matching via ISBN against external databases , has already been presented in Section 2.2 .
In the rest of this section , we will shed light on the three machine learning components of the system .
3.1 Siamese approximate name matching We want to learn a mapping that assigns a similarity score to a pair of author names such that name variants of the same entity will have high similarity , and
names that belong to different entities will have low similarity .
Once learned , this mapping will enable us to assign an entity to any given name .
To this end , we might use a classical string metric such as the Levenshtein distance or the n - gram distance ( Kondrak , 2005 ) .
However , those are not speciﬁc to people ’s names , and might return a large distance ( low similarity ) in cases such as the inversion between ﬁrst name and last name or the abbreviation of the ﬁrst name to an initial .
Thus , we want to use the dataset of name entities to learn a specialized notion of similarity — this is known as distance metric learning ( Kulis et al . , 2013 ) .
To this purpose , we use a pair of neural networks with shared weights , or Siamese neural network ( Bromley et al . , 1994 ) .
Each network is a recurrent neural network ( RNN ) composed of a character - level embedding layer with 256 units , a bidirectional long shortterm memory ( LSTM ) ( Hochreiter and Schmidhuber , 1997 ) with 2128units , and a dense layer with 256 units .
Each network takes a name as input and outputs a representation — the two representations are then compared using cosine similarity with a target value equal to 6The annotated RFR dataset is publicly available at https://rit.rakuten.co.jp/data_release .1 for name variants of the same entity , and to 0 otherwise .
We preprocess the input by representing all characters in ASCII and lowercase .
We consider a sequence length of 32 using zero padding .
The Siamese network is trained with contrastive loss ( Hadsell et al . , 2006 ) in order to push the similarity towards 1 for similar pairs , and below a certain margin ( that we set to 0 ) for dissimilar pairs .
The optimization is done using Adam ( Kingma and Ba , 2014 ) , with a learning rate of 10 3and a gradient clipping value of 5 .
We use batches of 512 samples , consider a negative to positive pairs ratio of 4 : 1 , and randomly generate new negative pairs at every epoch .
At test time , we search for the canonical name whose representation is closest to that of the query , using only the high - quality name entities from DBpedia , BnF , and JRC - names .
To this end , we do approximate nearest neighbor search using Annoy7 .
3.2 Name correction with seq2seq networks We use a generative model to correct and normalize authors ’ names directly .
The dataset of name entities is again employed to train a sequence - to - sequence ( seq2seq ) model ( Sutskever et al . , 2014 ) to produce the canonical form of a name from one of its variants .
The dataset is further augmented by including additional variants where the ﬁrst name is abbreviated to an initial .
The seq2seq model is an encoder - decoder using RNNs , with a character embedding layer , as in the case of the Siamese network .
The encoder is a bi - directional LSTM with 2256units , while the decoder is a plain LSTM with 512units connected to a softmax layer that computes a probability distribution over the characters .
The training is performed by minimizing the categorical cross - entropy loss , using teacher forcing ( Williams and Zipser , 1989 ) .
The optimization setting is identical to that of the Siamese nework , with batches of 1024 samples .
For inference , we collect the 10output sequences with highest probability using beam search .
3.3 Ranking of the proposals For any given book with an ISBN and an author ’s name , all three techniques shown in Fig .
1 provide one or several candidate canonical names .
As we aim at providing an automated tool to enhance the quality of the book products , the ﬁnal system should provide a ranked list of candidates with a calibrated conﬁdence level .
For this purpose we train a logistic regression to estimate the probability that a proposal is the canonical form for an author ’s name .
This information is then used as a conﬁdence score to rank the different candidate names returned by the three normalization approaches .
Speciﬁcally , we represent a proposal with a set of 12 features : 11 indicating whether it is found in the bibliographic sources , generated from the seq2seq model , matched with the Siamese network or equal to the input name , and
one last feature corresponding to the cosine 7https://github.com/spotify/annoy
124distance between the representation of the proposal and that of the input name .
The selected features reﬂect that the conﬁdence of the global system should increase with ( i)the consensus among the different sources , and ( ii ) the similarity of the candidate to the input name .
For this component we use the annotated dataset introduced in Section 2.4 , splitting the books between training and test sets , with a ratio of 50 % : 50 % , generating a total of 11185 proposals .
4 Results The three machine learning components discussed in the previous section have been individually evaluated on their speciﬁc task .
Furthermore the ﬁnal system has been evaluated in terms of correctly normalized book authors in a real case scenario .
Siamese approximate name matching We evaluate the Siamese network on a held out test set , and compare it to an n - gram distance , by checking that the nearest neighbor of a name variant is the canonical name of the entity to which it belongs .
We ﬁnd an accuracy of 79:8%for the Siamese network , against 71:1%for the n - gram baseline with n= 3 .
We have also checked metrics when introducing a threshold distance above which we consider that no matching entity is found , and found systematic improvement over the baseline .
In the ﬁnal system , we set the threshold to inﬁnity .
Siamese networks are more effective than simpler rule - based approaches and more speciﬁcally they perform better than the n - gram baseline on the following cases : Vittorio Hugo!Victor Hugo : capturing name variants in different languages ; Bill Shakespeare!William Shakespeare : capturing common nicknames Name correction with seq2seq networks Similarly to the previous approach , the seq2seq network is evaluated on a held out test set by checking that one of the generated name variants is the canonical name of the entity to which it belongs .
As expected , name normalization using seq2seq network gives poorer performances than approximate matching within a dataset of known authors , but constitutes a complementary approach that is useful in case of formatting issues or incomplete names .
This approach alone reaches a top- 10accuracy of 42 % on the entire test set , 26 % on a test set containing only names with initials , and 53 % on a test set containing only minor spelling mistakes .
Some examples where seq2seq performs better than the other methods are as follows :
V .
Hugo!Victor Hugo : ﬁrst name prediction for authors we do n’t have in the canonical database ; Vicor Hugo!Victor Hugo : misspelling correction for authors we do n’t have in the canonical database .
Table 2 : Global system top- kaccuracy at the book level .
Type of books # samples acc@1 acc@3 all 500 72 % 85 % unnorm .
input author 235 49 % 67 % no ISBN match 151 50 % 64 % unnorm .
+ no ISBN 109 35 % 49 % Ranking of the proposals With a decision threshold ofp= 0:5 , the trained classiﬁer has an accuracy of 93 % for both positive and negative candidates in the test set .
The coefﬁcients of the estimator reveal the importance of the features and , thus , of the related components .
The three most important contributions are the match with the Siamese network , the match via ISBN in Babelio , and the similarity with the input catalog name , conﬁrming the relevance of a multi - approach design choice .
Global system In order to reﬂect the actual use of the global system on e - commerce catalog data , the ﬁnal evaluation is performed at the book level , by considering all the proposals provided by the different components for a given book .
The metric used is the top- kaccuracy on the ranked list of proposals for each book ; results are summarized in Table 2 .
We ﬁnd that 72 % of the books have the author ’s name normalized by the highest ranked proposal .
Excluding from the evaluation books where the ground truth for the author ’s name equals the catalog value , this accuracy drops to 49 % .
In the case of books without ISBN or that do not match on any of the bibliographic resources , thus relying on machine learning - based components only , we ﬁnd that 50 % of the books are normalized by the top proposal .
Finally , for the combination of the above two restrictions , we ﬁnd a top-1 accuracy of 35 % .
5 Related works There is a long line of work on author name disambiguation for the case of bibliographic citation records ( Hussain and Asghar , 2017 ) .
While related , this problem differs from the one of book authors .
Indeed , unlike most books , research publications usually have several authors , each of them having published papers with other researchers .
The relationships among authors , which can be represented as a graph , may be used to help disambiguate the bibliographic citations .
Named entity linking ( Shen et al . , 2015 ) , where one aims at determining the identity of entities ( such as a person ’s name ) mentioned in text , is another related problem .
The crucial difference with the disambiguation of book authors is that entity linking systems leverage the context of the named entity mention to link unambiguously to an entity in a pre - populated knowledge base .
The conformity of truth in web resources is also a related problem , addressed in the literature by TruthFinder ( Yin et al . , 2008 ) algorithms .
Similarly , the proposed global model in which we combine sources learns to some extent the level of trust of the different
125sources .
Unlike our technique , the TruthFinder approach needs to start from a book we can unambiguously identify in several sources and , thus , needs its ISBN .
Distance metric learning with neural networks has been used for merging datasets on names ( Srinivas et al . , 2018 ) , for normalizing job titles ( Neculoiu et al . , 2016 ) , and for the disambiguation of researchers ( Zhang et al . , 2018 ) .
Sequence - to - sequence learning has been used for the more general task of text normalization ( Sproat and Jaitly , 2016 ) , and for sentence - level grammar error identiﬁcation ( Schmaltz et al . , 2016 ) .
To the best of our knowledge , the problem of normalization of book authors name has not been tackled in the previous literature , except for a work on named entity linking for French writers ( Frontini et al . , 2015 ) .
6 Conclusions We provided a ﬁrst attempt at solving the problem of author name normalization in the context of books sold on e - commerce websites .
To this end , we used a composite system involving open data sources for books , approximate match with Siamese networks , name correction with sequence - to - sequence networks , and ranking of the proposals .
We ﬁnd that 72 % of the books have the author ’s name normalized by the highest ranked proposal .
In order to facilitate future research , we are releasing data from Rakuten France : a large dataset containing product information , and a subset of it with expert human annotation for the authors ’ names .
They are accessible at rit.rakuten.co.jp/data_release .
Multiple challenges remain and are left for future research .
First , the system should be extended to handle the case of books with multiple authors .
In addition , the book title could be used to help disambiguate between authors and to query external bibliographic resources .
This work can also be seen as an intermediate step towards a knowledge base for book author names with name variants , extending public ones such as BnF , using the ISNI8for easier record linkage whenever available .
Acknowledgments We thank Rapha ¨el Ligier - Tirilly for his help with the deployment of the system as microservices , and Laurent Ach for his support .
References J. Bromley et al . 1994 .
Signature veriﬁcation using a “ siamese ” time delay neural network .
pages 737–744 .
F. Frontini et al . 2015 .
Semantic web based named entity linking for digital humanities and heritage texts .
R. Hadsell , S. Chopra , and Y .
LeCun .
2006 .
Dimensionality reduction by learning an invariant mapping .
S. Hochreiter and J. Schmidhuber .
1997 .
Long shortterm memory .
Neural computation 9(8):1735–1780 .
8International Standard Name Identiﬁer , isni.orgI. Hussain and S. Asghar . 2017 .
A survey of author name disambiguation techniques : 2010 to 2016 .
The Knowledge Engineering Review 32 .
D. P. Kingma and J. Ba . 2014 .
Adam : A method for stochastic optimization .
G. Kondrak .
2005 .
N - gram similarity and distance .
Springer , pages 115–126 .
B. Kulis et al . 2013 .
Metric learning : A survey .
Foundations and Trends in Machine Learning 5(4):287–364 .
J. Lehmann et al . 2015 .
DBpedia - a large - scale , multilingual knowledge base extracted from wikipedia .
Semantic Web Journal 6(2):167–195 .
E. Maud et
al . 2016 .
Jrc - names : Multilingual entity name variants and titles as linked data .
Semantic Web Journal 8(2):283–295 .
P. Neculoiu et al . 2016 .
Learning text similarity with siamese recurrent networks .
A. Schmaltz et al . 2016 .
Sentence - level grammatical error identiﬁcation as sequence - to - sequence correction .
W. Shen , J. Wang , and J. Han . 2015 .
Entity linking with a knowledge base : Issues , techniques , and solutions .
IEEE TKDE .
R. Sproat and N. Jaitly .
2016 .
Rnn approaches to text normalization : A challenge .
K. Srinivas , A. Gale , and J. Dolby .
2018 .
Merging datasets through deep learning .
R. Steinberger et al . 2011 .
Jrc - names : A freely available , highly multilingual named entity resource .
I. Sutskever , O. Vinyals , and Q. V .
Le . 2014 .
Sequence to sequence learning with neural networks .
R. J. Williams and D. Zipser .
1989 .
A learning algorithm for continually running fully recurrent neural networks .
Neural computation 1(2):270–280 .
X. Yin et al . 2008 .
Truth discovery with multiple conﬂicting information providers on the web .
IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering .
Y .
Zhang
et al .
2018 .
Name disambiguation in aminer : Clustering , maintenance , and human in the loop .
