Proceedings of NAACL - HLT 2018 :
Tutorial Abstracts , pages 10–16 New Orleans , Louisiana , June 1 , 2018 .
c  2018 Association for Computational Linguistics Scalable Construction and Reasoning of Massive Knowledge Bases — Proposal for a Tutorial at NAACL 2018 —
Xiang Ren1Nanyun Peng2William Yang Wang3 1University of Southern California , Department of Computer Science 2University of Southern California , Information Sciences Institute 3University of California , Santa Barbara , Department of Computer Science xiangren@usc.edu , npeng@isi.edu , william@cs.ucsb.edu
Abstract In today ’s information - based society , there is abundant knowledge out there carried in the form of natural language texts ( e.g. , news articles , social media posts , scientiﬁc publications ) , which spans across various domains ( e.g. , corporate documents , advertisements , legal acts , medical reports ) , and grows at an astonishing rate .
How to turn such massive and unstructured text data into structured , actionable knowledge for computational machines , and furthermore , how to teach machines learn to reason and complete the extracted knowledge is a grand challenge to the research community .
Traditional IE systems assume abundant human annotations for training high quality machine learning models , which is impractical when trying to deploy IE systems to a broad range of domains , settings and languages .
In the ﬁrst part of the tutorial , we introduce how to extract structured facts ( i.e. , entities and their relations of different types ) from text corpora to construct knowledge bases , with a focus on methods that are minimally - supervised and domain - independent for timely knowledge base construction across various application domains .
In the second part , we introduce how to leverage other knowledge , such as the distributional statistics of characters and words , the annotations for other tasks and other domains , and the linguistics and problem structures , tocombat the problem of inadequate supervision , and conduct low - resource information extraction .
In the third part , we describe recent advances in knowledge base reasoning .
We start with the gentle introduction to the literature , focusing on pathbased and embedding based methods .
We then describe DeepPath , a recent attempt of using deep reinforcement learning to combine the best of both worlds for knowledge base reasoning .
1 Introduction Motivation .
The success of data mining and artiﬁcial intelligence technology is largely attributed to the eﬃcient and eﬀective analysis of structured data .
The construction of a well - structured , machine - actionable knowledge base ( KB ) from raw ( unstructured or loosely - structured ) data sources is often the premise of consequent applications .
Although the majority of existing data generated in our society is unstructured , big data leads to big opportunities to uncover structures of real - world entities ( e.g. ,person , product ) , attributes ( e.g. ,age , weight ) , relations ( e.g. ,employee of , manufacture ) from massive text corpora .
By integrating these semantic structures , one can construct a powerful KB as a conceptual abstraction of the original corpus .
The constructed knowledge base will facilitate browsing information and inferring knowledge that are otherwise widely scattered in the text corpora .
Computational machines can eﬀectively perform algorithmic analysis at a large scale over these KBs , and apply the new insights to improve human productivity in various downstream tasks.10
Our Focus .
In this tutorial , we focus our discussion on two tightly related problems : automatic construction of knowledge bases from text , and knowledge reasoning for knowledge base completion .
While traditional information extraction techniques have heavy reliance on human - annotated data , our tutorial will devote more time on introducing methods that can reduce human eﬀorts in the process , by leveraging external knowledge sources ( e.g. , distant supervision ) and exploiting rich data redundancy in massive text corpora ( e.g. , weak supervision ) .
We also discuss how data sources from various domains and languages could opens up tremendous opportunities to leverage and transfer existing knowledge about domains , tasks and language , and help knowledge extraction in low - resource settings with minimal supervision .
In the reasoning part , we aim to leverage the existing background knowledge and design various algorithms to ﬁll in the missing link between entities in the KB , given the extracted KBs are likely incomplete .
More speciﬁcally , this part will introduce two lines of research for KB reasoning : path - based and embedding - based methods .
Topics to be covered in this tutorial .
The ﬁrst 2/3 of this tutorial presents a comprehensive overview of the information extraction techniques developed in recent years for constructing knowledge bases ( see also Section 2 for a more detailed outline ) .
We will discuss the following key issues : ( 1 ) data - driven approaches for mining quality phrases from massive , unstructured text corpora ; ( 2 ) entity recognition and typing : preliminaries , challenges , and methodologies ; and ( 3 ) relation extraction : previous eﬀorts , limitations , recent progress , and a joint entity and relation extraction method using distant supervision ; ( 4 ) multi - task and multi - domain learning for lowresource information extraction ; ( 5 ) distill linguistic knowledge into neural models to help low - resource information extraction .
The second half of the tutorial presents a comprehensive overview of KB reasoning techniques .
For path - based methods , we will ﬁrst describe the Path - Ranking Algorithm ( PRA ) ( Lao et al . , 2011 ) and brieﬂy describe extensions such as ProPPR ( Wang et al . , 2013 ) .
Our tutorial will also cover the recent integration ofPRA with recurrent neural networks .
For the embedding based method , we will brieﬂy describe RESCAL ( Nickel et al . , 2011 ) and TransE ( Bordes et al . , 2013 ) .
Finally , we discuss DeepPath ( Xiong et al . , 2017 ) , a novel deep reinforcement learning model that combines the embedding and path - based approaches for the learning to reason problem .
Research Impact .
Our phrase mining tool , SegPhrase ( Liu et al . , 2015 ) , won the grand prize of Yelp Dataset Challenge1and was used by TripAdvisor in productions2 .
Our entity recognition and typing system , ClusType ( Ren et al . , 2015 ) , was shipped as part of the products in Microsoft Bing and U.S. Army Research Lab .
We built the ﬁrst named entity recognizer on Chinese social media ( Peng and Dredze , 2015 , 2016 ) and closed the gap between NER on English and Chinese social media .
The same technique was applied to build the ﬁrst relation extractor for cross - sentence , n - ary relation extraction between drug , gene , and mutation ( Peng et al . , 2017 ) .
Duration and Sessions .
The duration of the tutorial is ﬂexible : It is expected to be 3 hours , but it can be extended into 6 hours , based on the need of the conference .
The outline presented here is for the 3 - hour tutorial .
For longer duration of the tutorial , we plan to extend entity and relation extraction parts , and add in more case studies and applications .
Relevance to ACL .
Machine “ reading ” and “ reasoning ” of large text corpora have long been the interests to CL and NLP communities , especially when people now are exposed to an explosion of information in the form of free text .
Extracting structured information is key to understanding messy and scattered raw data , and eﬀective reasoning tools are critical for the use of KBs in downstream tasks like QA .
This tutorial will present an organized picture of recent research on knowledge base construction and reasoning .
We will show how exciting and surprising knowledge can be discovered from your own not so well - structured raw corpora , and such incomplete KBs can be further used to derive new insights and more complex knowledge with reasoning techniques .
1http://www.yelp.com/dataset_challenge 2http://engineering.tripadvisor.com/ mining - text - review - snippets/11
2 Outline This tutorial presents a comprehensive overview of techniques for automatic knowledge base construction from text data ( especially from a large , domain - speciﬁc text corpora ) , and techniques for reasoning over large - scale knowledge bases .
We will discuss the following key issues : 1 . Overview ( a ) Knowledge base : A little history ( b ) Knowledge base preliminaries ( c ) Knowledge base construction : An overview i. From phrases to entities and relations 2 .
Phrase Mining from Massive Text Corpora ( a ) Preliminaries i. Criteria of Quality Phrases ii .
The Origin of Phrase Mining A. Automatic Term Recognition B. Supervised Noun Phrase Chunking C. Dependency Parser - based Methods ( b ) Data - Driven Phrase Mining in A Large Text Corpus i. Unsupervised Frequency - based Methods ii .
Weakly Supervised Method : SegPhrase iii .
Automated Quality Phrase A.
No Extra Human Eﬀort B. Support Multiple Languages C. High Performance 3 .
Automated Entity Recognition and Typing ( a ) Preliminaries i. Entities that are explicitly typed and linked externally with documents .
A. Wikilinks and ClueWeb corpora B. Probase :
A Probabilistic Taxonomy C. MENED :
Mining evidence outside referent knowledge bases ii .
Entities that can be extracted within text .
iii .
Traditional named entity recognition ( NER ) systems A. Entity extraction as a sequence labeling task B. Classic coarse types and manuallyannotated corporaC.
Sequence labeling models ( b ) Entity Recognition and Typing in A Large , Domain - speciﬁc Corpus i. Semi - supervised approaches A. Combining local and global features ii .
Weakly - supervised approaches A. Pattern - based bootstrapping methods B. SEISA :
A set expansion method C. Extracting entities from web tables iii .
Distantly - supervised approaches A. SemTagger : Seed - based contextual classiﬁer for entity typing B. ClusType :
Eﬀective entity recognition by relation phrase - based clustering iv .
Fine - grained entity typing approaches A. FIGER : Multi - label classiﬁcation with automatically annotated data B. Embedding methods for entity typing : AFET and WSABIE v. Label noise reduction in distant supervision A. Noisy type issue in distant supervision B. Simple pruning heuristics C. Partial - label learning methods D. Label noise reduction by heterogeneous partial - label embedding 4 .
Automated Extraction of Structured Entity Relationships ( a ) Preliminaries of relation extraction ( RE ) i.
Basic concepts : relation instance , relation mention ii .
Explicit relation vs. implicit relation iii .
Downstream applications A. Knowledge base completion B. Question answering systems ( b ) Traditional supervised RE systems i. Supervised RE methods A. Supervised models B. Features for relation extraction C. Training data D. Evaluation of RE task ii .
Systems from Stanford and IBM ( c ) Extracting typed relations from A Massive Corpus i. Weak supervision methods12
A. Pattern - based boostrapping methods B. Seed examples selection C. DIPRE system D. KnowItAll system E. Snowball system ii .
Distant supervision ( DS ) methods A. Distant supervision for RE : A typical workﬂow B. Challenges of DS : noisy candidate labels C. Noise - robust DS models iii .
Joint extraction of entities and relations A. Supervised methods : linear programming and sequence models B. CoType : A distantly - supervised method 5 .
Transfer Knowledge for Low Resource Information Extraction ( a ) Multi - task and multi - domain learning for named entity recognition ( b ) Cross - lingual entity extraction ( c ) Distilling linguistics knowledge into relation extraction system 6 .
Knowledge Base Reasoning : Background and State - of - the - Arts ( a ) Preliminaries i. KB Reasoning and Information Extraction A. Diﬀerence with IE ii .
Challenges of KB Reasoning A. Noisy Background Knowledge B. Combinatorial explosion and huge search space C. Scalability ( b ) Path - Based Approaches i.
The Path - Finding Algorithm ii .
ProPPR iii .
Combining PRA and Recurrent Neural Networks ( c ) Embedding - Based Approaches i. RESCAL ii .
TransE iii .
Other Recent Studies ( d ) DeepPath : Reinforcement Learning for KB Reasoning i. Problem Formulationii .
The DeepPath Algorithm iii .
Imitation Learning iv .
Experimental Results 7 .
Research Frontier 3
Organizers Xiang Ren , Assistant Professor , Department of Computer Science , University of Southern California .
His research focuses on creating computational tools for better understanding and exploring massive text data .
He has published over 25 papers in major conferences .
He received Google PhD Fellowship , KDD Rising Star by Microsoft , Yahoo!-DAIS Research Excellence Award , C. W. Gear Outstanding Graduate Student Award by UIUC and Yelp Dataset Challenge Award .
Mr. Ren has rich experiences in delivering tutorials in major conferences , including SIGKDD 2015 , SIGMOD 2016 and WWW 2017 .
Homepage : http://xren7.web.engr.illinois.edu/. Nanyun Peng is a Research Assistant Professor at the Department of Computer Science , and a Computer Scientist at the Information Sciences Institute , University of Southern California .
She is broadly interested in Natural Language Processing , Machine Learning , and Information Extraction .
Her research focuses on low - resource information extraction , creative language generation , and phonology / morphology modeling .
Nanyun is the recipient of the Johns Hopkins University 2016 Fred Jelinek Fellowship .
She has a background in computational linguistics and economics and holds BAs in both .
Home page : http://www.vnpeng.net .
William Wang is an Assistant Professor at the Department of Computer Science , University of California , Santa Barbara .
He received his PhD from Carnegie Mellon University , where he worked on scalable probabilistic reasoning language ProPPR with William Cohen .
He focuses on information extraction and he is the faculty author of DeepPath — the ﬁrst deep reinforcement learning system for multi - hop knowledge reasoning .
He has published more than 40 papers at leading conferences and journals including ACL , EMNLP , NAACL , COLING , IJCAI , CIKM , SIGDIAL , IJCNLP , INTERSPEECH,13
ICASSP , ASRU , SLT , Machine Learning , and Computer Speech & Language , and he has received paper awards and honors from CIKM , ASRU , and EMNLP .
Website : http://www .
cs.ucsb.edu/ ~william/. 4 Previous Editions and Related Tutorials A list of tutorials on the most related topics : 1.Conference tutorial : X. Ren , Y. Su , X. Yan , “ Construction and Querying of Large - scale Knowledge Bases ” ( CIKM’17 ) .
http://xren7.web.engr .
illinois.edu/tutorial-cikm17.html .
2.Conference tutorial : J. Pujara , S. Singh , B. Dalvi , “ Knowledge Graph Construction From Text ” ( AAAI’17 ) .
https : //kgtutorial.github.io/. 3.Conference tutorial : X. Ren , M. Jiang , J. Shang and J. Han , “ Constructing Structured Information Networks from Massive Text Corpora ” ( WWW’17 ) .
http://xren7.web.engr .
illinois.edu/www17tutorial.html .
4.Conference tutorial :
W. Y. Wang , W. Cohen “ Scalable Probabilistic Logics ” ( IJCAI’16 ) .
http://www.cs.cmu.edu/ ~yww/ tutorials.html .
5.Conference tutorial :
W. Y. Wang , W. Cohen “ Statistical Relational Learning for NLP ” ( NAACL’16 ) .
http://www . aclweb.org/anthology/N16-4005 .
6.Conference tutorial : E. Gabrilovichn , N. Usunier , “ Constructing and Mining Web - scale Knowledge Graphs ” ( SIGIR’16 ) .
http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm ?
id=2914807/. 7.Conference tutorial : X. Ren , A. ElKishky , C. Wang and J. Han , “ Automatic Entity Recognition and Typing in Massive Text Corpora ” ( WWW’16 ) .
http:// web.engr.illinois.edu/ ~elkishk2 / www2016/. 8.Conference tutorial : X. Ren , A. ElKishky , C. Wang and J. Han , “ Automatic Entity Recognition and Typing from Massive Text Corpora : A Phrase and Network Mining Approach ” ( SIGKDD’15 ) .
http://research.microsoft . com / en - us / people / chiw / kdd15tutorial.aspx .
Most of the previous tutorials focused exclusively on the knowledge base construction aspect .
In the proposed tutorial , we will give a systematic discussion on the problem of knowledge base reasoning , for which extensive studies have been conducted recently but systematic tutorials are lacking .
This tutorial also presents recent advances in applying distant and weak supervision to the extraction of structured facts in knowledge base construction , in addition to the traditional supervised techniques and rule - based approaches .
Target audience and prerequisites .
Researchers and practitioners in the ﬁeld of natural language processing , computational linguistic , text mining , information retrieval , semantic web and machine learning .
While the audience with a good background in these areas would beneﬁt most from this tutorial , we believe the material to be presented would give general audience and newcomers an introductory pointer to the current work and important research topics in this ﬁeld , and inspire them to learn more .
Only preliminary knowledge about NLP , algorithms and their applications are needed .
We expect there will be around 70 people interested in our tutorial .
Tutorial material and equipment .
We will provide attendees a website and upload our tutorial materials ( slides , references , softwares ) .
There is no copyright issue .
Standard equipment will be enough for our tutorial .
References Eugene Agichtein and Luis Gravano .
2000 .
Snowball :
Extracting relations from large plain - text collections .
In ACM conference on Digital libraries .
pages 85–94 .
Nguyen Bach and Sameer Badaskar .
2007 .
A review of relation extraction .
Literature review for Language and Statistics II .
Kurt Bollacker , Colin Evans , Praveen Paritosh , Tim Sturge , and Jamie Taylor . 2008 .
Freebase : a collaboratively created graph database for structuring human knowledge .
In SIGMOD .
Antoine Bordes , Nicolas Usunier , Alberto GarciaDuran , Jason Weston , and Oksana Yakhnenko .
2013 .
Translating embeddings for modeling multi - relational data .
In Advances in neural information processing systems .
pages 2787–2795.14
Andrew Carlson , Justin Betteridge , Richard C Wang , Estevam R Hruschka Jr , and Tom M Mitchell . 2010 .
Coupled semi - supervised learning for information extraction .
In WSDM .
Oren Etzioni , Michael Cafarella , Doug Downey , Stanley Kok , Ana - Maria Popescu , Tal Shaked , Stephen Soderland , Daniel S Weld , and Alexander Yates .
2004 .
Web - scale information extraction in knowitall:(preliminary results )
.
In Proceedings of the 13th international conference on World Wide Web . ACM , pages 100–110 .
Venkatesh Ganti , Arnd C K¨ onig , and Rares Vernica . 2008 .
Entity categorization over large document collections .
In SIGKDD .
Sonal Gupta and Christopher D. Manning .
2014 .
Improved pattern learning for bootstrapped entity extraction .
In CONLL .
Yeye He and Dong Xin . 2011 .
Seisa : set expansion by iterative similarity aggregation .
In WWW .
Raphael Hoﬀmann , Congle Zhang , Xiao Ling , Luke Zettlemoyer , and Daniel S Weld .
2011 .
Knowledge - based weak supervision for information extraction of overlapping relations .
In ACL .
Ruihong Huang and Ellen Riloﬀ. 2010 .
Inducing domain - speciﬁc semantic class taggers from ( almost ) nothing .
In ACL .
Terry Koo , Xavier Carreras , and Michael Collins .
2008 .
Simple semi - supervised dependency parsing .
ACL - HLT .
Ni Lao , Tom Mitchell , and William W Cohen . 2011 .
Random walk inference and learning in a large scale knowledge base .
In Proceedings of the Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing .
Association for Computational Linguistics , pages 529–539 .
Qi Li and Heng Ji . 2014 .
Incremental joint extraction of entity mentions and relations .
In ACL .
Yang Li , Chi Wang , Fangqiu Han , Jiawei Han , Dan Roth , and Xifeng Yan .
2013 .
Mining evidences for named entity disambiguation .
In Proceedings of the 19th ACM SIGKDD international conference on Knowledge discovery and data mining . ACM , pages 1070–1078 .
Girija Limaye , Sunita Sarawagi , and Soumen Chakrabarti .
2010 .
Annotating and searching web tables using entities , types and relationships .
VLDB 3(1 - 2):1338–1347 .
Xiao Ling and Daniel S Weld .
2012 .
Fine - grained entity recognition .
In AAAI .
Jialu Liu , Jingbo Shang , Chi Wang , Xiang Ren , and Jiawei Han . 2015 .
Mining quality phrases from massive text corpora .
In SIGMOD .Ryan McDonald , Fernando Pereira , Kiril Ribarov , and Jan Hajiˇ c. 2005 .
Non - projective dependency parsing using spanning tree algorithms .
InEMNLP .
Paul McNamee and James Mayﬁeld .
2002 .
Entity extraction without language - speciﬁc resources .
Inproceedings of the 6th conference on Natural language learning - Volume 20 .
Association for Computational Linguistics , pages 1–4 .
Mike Mintz , Steven Bills , Rion Snow , and Dan Jurafsky . 2009 .
Distant supervision for relation extraction without labeled data .
In ACL .
Maximilian Nickel , Volker Tresp , and Hans - Peter Kriegel . 2011 .
A three - way model for collective learning on multi - relational data .
In ICML .
volume 11 , pages 809–816 .
Nanyun Peng and Mark Dredze . 2015 .
Named entity recognition for chinese social media with jointly trained embeddings .
In Proceedings of the 2015 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing ( EMNLP ) .
Lisboa , Portugal .
Nanyun Peng and Mark Dredze . 2016 .
Improving named entity recognition for chinese social media via learning segmentation representations .
Nanyun Peng , Hoifung Poon , Chris Quirk , Kristina Toutanova , and Wen - tau Yih . 2017 .
Cross - sentence n - ary relation extraction with graph lstms .
Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics 5:101–115 .
Vasin Punyakanok and Dan Roth .
2001 .
The use of classiﬁers in sequential inference .
In NIPS .
Lev Ratinov and Dan Roth . 2009 .
Design challenges and misconceptions in named entity recognition .
In ACL .
Xiang Ren , Ahmed El - Kishky , Chi Wang , Fangbo Tao , Clare R. Voss , and Jiawei Han . 2015 .
ClusType :
Eﬀective entity recognition and typing by relation phrase - based clustering .
In KDD .
Xiang Ren , Wenqi He , Meng Qu , Lifu Huang , Heng Ji , and Jiawei Han . 2016a .
AFET :
Automatic ﬁne - grained entity typing by hierarchical partial - label embedding .
In EMNLP .
Xiang Ren , Wenqi He , Meng Qu , Clare R Voss , Heng Ji , and Jiawei Han . 2016b .
Label noise reduction in entity typing by heterogeneous partial - label embedding .
In KDD .
Xiang Ren , Zeqiu Wu , Wenqi He , Meng Qu , Clare R. Voss , Heng Ji , Tarek F. Abdelzaher , and Jiawei Han . 2017 .
CoType : Joint extraction of typed entities and relations with knowledge bases .
In arXiv:1610.08763 .15
Wei Shen , Jianyong Wang , and Jiawei Han . 2014 .
Entity linking with a knowledge base : Issues , techniques , and solutions .
TKDE ( 99):1–20 .
Yu Su , Huan Sun , Brian Sadler , Mudhakar Srivatsa , Izzeddin Gur , Zenghui Yan , and Xifeng Yan . 2016 .
On generating characteristic - rich question sets for qa evaluation .
In EMNLP .
pages 562–572 .
Yizhou Sun and Jiawei Han . 2013 .
Mining heterogeneous information networks : a structural analysis approach .
SIGKDD Explorations 14(2):20–28 .
Jian Tang , Meng Qu , and Qiaozhu Mei . 2015 .
Pte : Predictive text embedding through large - scale heterogeneous text networks .
In Proceedings of the 21th ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining . ACM , pages 1165–1174 .
Joseph Turian , Lev Ratinov , and Yoshua Bengio .
2010 .
Word representations : a simple and general method for semi - supervised learning .
In ACL .
William Yang Wang , Kathryn Mazaitis , and William W Cohen .
2013 .
Programming with personalized pagerank : a locally groundable ﬁrst - order probabilistic logic .
In Proceedingsof the 22nd ACM international conference on Information & Knowledge Management . ACM , pages 2129–2138 .
Wentao Wu , Hongsong Li , Haixun Wang , and Kenny Q Zhu . 2012 .
Probase :
A probabilistic taxonomy for text understanding .
In Proceedings of the 2012 ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data . ACM , pages 481–492 .
Wenhan Xiong , Thien Hoang , and William Yang Wang .
2017 .
Deeppath :
A reinforcement learning method for knowledge graph reasoning .
EMNLP .
Endong Xun , Changning Huang , and Ming Zhou .
2000 .
A uniﬁed statistical model for the identiﬁcation of english basenp .
In ACL .
Mohamed Yakout , Kris Ganjam , Kaushik Chakrabarti , and Surajit Chaudhuri . 2012 .
Infogather : entity augmentation and attribute discovery by holistic matching with web tables .
InSIGMOD .
GuoDong Zhou , Jian Su , Jie Zhang , and Min Zhang .
2005 .
Exploring various knowledge in relation extraction .
In ACL.16
